.\" chcpumf.8
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright IBM Corp. 2014, 2017
.\" s390-tools is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH chcpumf "8" "February 2014" "s390-tools" "CPU-MF management programs"
.
.ds c \fBchcpumf\fP
.
.
.SH NAME
chcpumf \- manage the CPU-measurement facilities support
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chcpumf
.RB [ \-m | \-\-min
.IR num_sdb ]
.RB [ \-x | \-\-max
.IR num_sdb ]
.RB [ \-V |  \-\-verbose ]
.br
.B chcpumf
.BR \-h | \-\-help
.br
.B chcpumf
.BR \-v | \-\-version
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The chcpumf program helps you to manage settings for the CPU-measurement
facilities for Linux on System z.
.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-min " \fInum_sdb\fP"
Specifies the minimum sampling facility buffer size in sample-data-blocks
(SDB).  A sample-data-block consumes about 4 kilobytes.

This is the initial buffer size when you start the sampling facility.
.
.TP
.BR \-x ", " \-\-max " \fInum_sdb\fP"
Specifies the maximum sampling facility buffer size in sample-data-blocks
(SDB).  A sample-data-block consumes about 4 kilobytes.

This is the maximum size to which the buffer is dynamically adjusted during
sampling.
.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-verbose
Displays verbose messages.
.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Displays help information, then exits.
.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Displays version information, then exits.
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lscpumf (1)
