\" lscpumf.1
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright IBM Corp. 2014, 2020
.\" s390-tools is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH lscpumf "1" "May 2020" "s390-tools" "CPU-MF management programs"
.
.ds c \fBlscpumf\fP
.
.
.SH NAME
lscpumf \- display information about CPU-measurement facilities
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lscpumf
.RB [ \-i | \-\-info ]
.br
.B lscpumf
.RB \-c | \-\-list\-counters | \-C | \-\-list\-all\-counters
.RB [ \-n ]
.br
.B lscpumf
.RB \-s | \-\-list\-sampling\-events
.br
.B lscpumf
.BR \-h | \-\-help
.br
.B lscpumf
.BR \-v | \-\-version
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The lscpumf program lists information about CPU-measurement facilities that
are supported by Linux on System z.
.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-info
Displays detailed information about available and supported CPU-measurement
facilities.
.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-list\-counters
Lists counters that are provided by the CPU-measurement facility, omitting
counters for which the LPAR is not authorized. For counter measurements with
the perf program, the raw event identifier is displayed.
For Linux version 5.5 and later, the raw event identifier is
displayed as <type>:<number>, where type is an integer that the kernel
assignes to the CPU Measurement counter facility device driver.
For earlier Linux versions the raw event identifier is displayed as r<number>.
.
.TP
.BR \-C ", " \-\-list\-all\-counters
Lists all counters that are provided by the CPU-measurement counter facility,
regardless of LPAR authorization. To list only those counters for which the
LPAR is authorized, use the -c option.
For linux version 5.5 and later the raw event identifier is
displayed as <type>:<number>, where type is the number the CPU Measurement
counter facility device driver was assigned to by the kernel.
For earlier linux versions the raw event identifier is displayed as r<number>.
.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-name
.
Display the counter name together with the raw event identifier.
.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-list\-sampling\-events
Lists perf raw events that activate the sampling facility.
.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Displays help information, then exits.
.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Displays version information, then exits.
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR chcpumf (8)
