.\" lspai.8
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright IBM Corp. 2021
.\" s390-tools is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.ds c \fBlspai\fP
.
.TH \*c "8" "August 2023" "s390-tools" "CPU-MF management programs"
.
.SH NAME
\*c \- list Processor Activity Instrumentation (PAI) counters
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\*c
.RB [ \-n ]
.RB [ \-t
.IR "\ TYPE" ]
.br
\*c
.BR \-h | \-\-help
.br
\*c
.BR \-v | \-\-version
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\*c displays the Processor Activity Instrumentation (PAI) counters
for Linux on IBM Z.
The output is a human-readable list of available PAI counter
names and numbers.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Displays help information, then exits.
.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Displays version information, then exits.
.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-type "\ TYPE"
Specifies the PAI counter set to list.
Valid counter set values are
.I crypto
and
.IR nnpa .
By default, the command lists all available PAI counter sets.
NNPA refers to the Neural Network Processing Assist facility counter set.
Crypto refers to the Cryptografic Processing Assist facility counter set.
.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-numeric
Shows the PAI counter sets sorted by counter number.
Default sort order is PAI counter name.
.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
The \*c invocation lists all PAI Neural Network Processing Assist Facility
(NNPA) counters in numeric order:
.nf
# lspai -t nnpa -n
RAW     NAME			DESCRIPTION
13:6144 NNPA_ALL		Counter 0 / PAI NNPA counter set
13:6145 NNPA_ADD		Counter 1 / PAI NNPA counter set
13:6146 NNPA_SUB		Counter 2 / PAI NNPA counter set
13:6147 NNPA_MUL		Counter 3 / PAI NNPA counter set
\&...
.fi
The first column shows the raw event number suitable for
.IR perf "(8)"
raw event specification.
The second column shows the PAI NNPA counter name,
suitable for
.IR perf "(8)"
event specification by name.
The third gives a short explanation, if available.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pai (8)
.BR lscpumf (8)
