.\" Copyright 2017 IBM Corp.
.\" s390-tools is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.
.\"
.TH DUMPCONF 8 "Sept 2011" "s390-tools"

.SH NAME
dumpconf \- Configure panic and PSW restart actions for Linux on System z

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
\fBdumpconf\fR [start|stop|status]
.br
\fBdumpconf\fR [-h|-v]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBdumpconf\fR reads the /etc/sysconfig/dumpconf file
and establishes the action to be taken if a kernel panic occurs
or PSW restart is triggered.

The following keywords can be used in the dumpconf file:

.TP
\fB  - ON_PANIC:\fR
Shutdown action in case of a kernel panic or a PSW restart. Possible values
are 'dump', 'reipl', 'dump_reipl', 'stop' and 'vmcmd':
.br

dump: Trigger dump according to the configuration in /etc/sysconfig/dumpconf.
.br

reipl: Trigger re-IPL according to the configuration under /sys/firmware/reipl.
.br

dump_reipl: First trigger dump according to the configuration in
/etc/sysconfig/dumpconf, then trigger re-IPL according to the configuration
under /sys/firmware/reipl.
.br

stop: Stop Linux and enter disabled wait (default).
.br

vmcmd: Trigger CP command according to the 'VMCMD_X' configuration in
/etc/sysconfig/dumpconf.

.TP
\fB  - DUMP_TYPE:\fR
Type of dump device. Possible values are 'ccw', 'fcp' and 'nvme'.

.TP
\fB  - DEVICE:\fR
Device number of dump device.

.TP
\fB  - WWPN\fR
WWPN for SCSI dump device.

.TP
\fB  - LUN\fR
LUN for SCSI dump device.

.TP
\fB  - FID\fR
Function ID for NVMe dump device.

.TP
\fB  - NSID\fR
Namespace ID for NVMe dump device.

.TP
\fB  - BOOTPROG:\fR
Boot program selector.

.TP
\fB  - BR_LBA:\fR
Boot record logical block address.

.TP
\fB  - VMCMD_1, VMCMD_2 ... VMCMD_8:\fR
Up to eight CP commands, which are executed in case of a kernel panic
or PSW restart.

.TP
\fB - DELAY_MINUTES:\fR
Number of minutes the activation of dumpconf is to be delayed. If this keyword
is omitted, the default is zero, which means that
dumpconf activates immediately during system startup.
Specify a non-zero delay time only if you specified
shutdown action "reipl" or "dump_reipl".
These actions might cause a reboot loop
if the Linux kernel crashes persistently during (or shortly after) each reboot.

A non-zero delay time causes dumpconf to sleep in the background until the
delay time has expired. In this case messages are written to /var/log/messages.
By default (DELAY_MINUTES is omitted or zero) dumpconf runs in the foreground
and informational messages are written to sysout, while
error messages are written to syserr.

Example: If you specified DELAY_MINUTES=10 and
your Linux system crashes within 10 minutes after the reboot,
then dumpconf is not yet active and the default action (stop) is triggered.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fBstart\fR
Enable configuration defined in /etc/sysconfig/dumpconf.

.TP
\fBstop\fR
Disable dump configuration.

.TP
\fBstatus\fR
Show current configuration.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h\fR or \fB--help\fR
Print usage information, then exit.

.TP
\fB-v\fR or \fB--version\fR
Print version information, then exit.

.SH PSW Restart
PSW Restart can be triggered by the operator under z/VM with the CP
command "#cp system restart" and under LPAR on the HMC with
"Recovery/PSW Restart".

.SH EXAMPLES:
The following are examples of the /etc/sysconfig/dumpconf file:
.br

#
.br
# Example configuration for a CCW dump device (DASD)
.br
#
.br
ON_PANIC=dump_reipl
.br
DUMP_TYPE=ccw
.br
DEVICE=0.0.1234
.br
DELAY_MINUTES=5
.br

#
.br
# Example configuration for an FCP dump device (SCSI Disk)
.br
#
.br
ON_PANIC=dump
.br
DUMP_TYPE=fcp
.br
DEVICE=0.0.2345
.br
WWPN=0x5005076303004712
.br
LUN=0x4713000000000000
.br
BOOTPROG=0
.br
BR_LBA=0
.br

#
.br
# Example configuration for an NVMe dump device (NVMe Disk)
.br
#
.br
ON_PANIC=dump
.br
DUMP_TYPE=nvme
.br
FID=0x0300
.br
NSID=0x0001
.br
BOOTPROG=0
.br
BR_LBA=0
.br

#
.br
# Example configuration for CP commands
.br
#
.br
ON_PANIC=vmcmd
.br
VMCMD_1="MESSAGE * Starting VMDUMP"
.br
VMCMD_2="VMDUMP"
.br
VMCMD_3="IPL 3456"

#
.br
# Example config for re-IPL
.br
#
.br
ON_PANIC=reipl
.br
DELAY_MINUTES=5

.SH SEE ALSO
Linux on System z: Using the Dump Tools
