.\" Copyright 2024, 2025 IBM Corp.
.\" s390-tools is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.
.\"

.TH "PVSECRET-RETRIEVE" "1" "2025-04-17" "s390-tools" "UV-Secret Manual"
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
pvsecret-retrieve \- Retrieve a secret from the UV secret store (s390x only)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.fam C
pvsecret retrieve [OPTIONS] <ID>
pvsecret retr [OPTIONS] <ID>
.fam C
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Retrieve a secret from the UV secret store (s390x only). Retrieves a retrievable
secret from the UV\-storage of the guest by its ID. The ID may be provided as
yaml file or as 32 byte hex\-string. The secret is written as PEM file. For
Plaintext secret \fBPLAINTEXT SECRET\fP is used as PEM name and for protected
keys the PEM name \fBIBM PROTECTED KEY\fP is used.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
<ID>
.RS 4
Specify the secret ID to be retrieved. Input type depends on \fB\-\-inform\fR.
If `yaml` (default) is specified, it must be a yaml created by the create
subcommand of this tool. If `hex` is specified, it must be a 32 byte handle
encodes in hexadecimal. Leading zeros are required. If there are multiple
secrets in the store with the same Id there are no guarantees on which specific
secret is retrieved. Use \-\-inform=idx to make sure a specific secret is
retrieved.
.RE
.RE

.PP
\-o, \-\-output <FILE>
.RS 4
Specify the output path to place the secret value.
[default: '-']
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-inform <INFORM>
.RS 4
Define input type for the Secret ID.
[default: 'yaml']

Possible values:
.RS 4
\- \fByaml\fP: Use a yaml file.

\- \fBhex\fP: Use a hex string.

\- \fBname\fP: Use a name-string. Will hash it if no secret with the name found.

\- \fBidx\fP: Use the secret-index (base 10) instead of the secret-ID.

.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-outform <OUTFORM>
.RS 4
Define the output format for the retrieved secret.
[default: 'pem']

Possible values:
.RS 4
\- \fBpem\fP: Write the secret as PEM.

\- \fBbin\fP: Write the secret in binary.

.RE
.RE
.PP
\-h, \-\-help
.RS 4
Print help (see a summary with \fB\-h\fR).
.RE
.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
\fBpvsecret\fR(1)
