.\" Copyright 2023 IBM Corp.
.\" s390-tools is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.
.\"

.TH pvsecret-verify 1 "2024-01-30" "s390-tools" "UV-Secret Manual"
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
\fBpvsecret verify\fP - Verify that an add-secret request is sane
\fB
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.fam C
pvsecret verify [OPTIONS] <FILE>
.fam C
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Verifies that the given request is an Add-Secret request by testing for some
values to be present. If the request contains signed user-data, the signature is
verified with the provided key. Outputs the arbitrary user-data. All data in the
request is in big endian.
.PP
\fIverify\fP checks the following:
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
The first 6 bytes of the request are equal to: \fB6173 7263 624d | asrcbM\fP
.IP \[bu] 2
The sizes in the request header are sane and do not point out of the
file
.IP \[bu] 2
The request version is supported by the binary
.IP \[bu] 2
If user-data contains a signature, verify the signature using a public
key
.RE
.PP
The content of bytes 6&7 of the request define which kind
of user-data the request contains.
.IP \fB0x0000\fP 8
no user-data (512 bytes zero)
.IP \fB0x0001\fP 8
512 bytes user-data
.IP \fB0x0002\fP 8
265 bytes user-data| 139 bytes ecdsa signature | 5 bytes reserved | 2 bytes
signature size | ...
.IP \fB0x0003\fP 8
256 bytes user-data | 256 bytes rsa2048 signature
.IP \fB0x0004\fP 8
128 bytes user-data | 384 bytes rsa3072 signature
.PP
The actual user-data may be less than the capacity. If less data was provided
during \fIcreate\fP zeros are appended.
.
For type 2-4 The signature is calculated as follows:
.RS
.IP "1." 3
The request is generated with the user-data in place and zeros for the
signature data.
.IP "2." 3
The signature is calculated for the request. The signature signs the
authenticated data and the encrypted data, but not the request tag. I.e. the
signature signs the whole request but the last 16 bytes and with the signature
bytes set to zero.
.IP "3." 3
The signature is inserted to its location in the request.
.IP "4." 3
The request GCM tag is calculated.
.PP
.RE

The verification process works as follows:
.RS
.IP "1." 3
copy the signature to a buffer
.IP "2." 3
overwrite the signature with zeros
.IP "3." 3
verify the signature of the request but the last 16 bytes
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
<FILE>
.RS 4
Specify the request to be checked.
.RE
.RE

.PP
\-\-user-cert <FILE>
.RS 4
Certificate containing a public key used to verify the user data signature.
Specifies a public key used to verify the user-data signature. The file must be
a X509 certificate in DSA or PEM format. The certificate must hold the public
EC, RSA 2048, or RSA 3072 key corresponding to the private user-key used during
`create`. No chain of trust is established. Ensuring that the certificate can be
trusted is the responsibility of the user. The EC key must use the NIST/SECG
curve over a 521 bit prime field (secp521r1).
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-o, \-\-output <FILE>
.RS 4
Store the result in FILE If the request contained abirtary user-data the output
contains this user-data with padded zeros if available.
[default: '-']
.RE
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Create the add-secret request on a trusted system with signed user datai similar to the example for \fFpvsecret\fP. Let's assume there are three more files present .\fFuser_data\fP contains ascii "some example user-data", a private user-signing key e.g. rsa3072 \fFusr_sgn_key.priv.pem\fF, and a certificate containing the corresponding public key to the private rsa3072 key \fFuser_cert.pem\fP.
.PP
.RS
.IP  trusted:~$  12
pvsecret create -k hkd.crt --cert CA.crt --cert ibmsk.crt --hdr pvimage -o addsecreq.bin  --user-data user_data --user-sign-key usr_sgn_key.priv.pem association EXAMPLE
.RE
.RS
Successfully generated the request
.br
Successfully wrote association info to 'EXAMPLE.yaml'
.RE

For example, on the SE-guest, perform \fIverify\fP on the request to verify the user-signature and the saneness of the request. On success,  The user-data is printed to stdout (if \fI--output\fP was not specified) and \fFSuccesfully verified the request.\fP is printed to stderr.
.PP
.RS
.IP  seguest:~$  12
pvsecret verify --user-cert user_cert.pem -o addsecreq.bin
.RE
.RS
some example user-data
.br
Successfully verified the request
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
\fBpvsecret\fR(1)
