.\" chiucvallow.8
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright IBM Corp. 2009, 2017
.\" s390-tools is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH chiucvallow "8" "March 2015" "s390-tools" "z/VM IUCV HVC device driver"
.
.
.ds f \fBchiucvallow\fP

.
.
.SH NAME
lsiucvallow, chiucvallow \- List, change, and verify z/VM user ID filter settings
.
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lsiucvallow
.br
.B \*f
.BR \-l | \-\-list

.B \*f
.BR \-e | \-\-edit
.RI " [" filter ]
.br
.B \*f
.BR \-s | \-\-set
.I filter
.br
.B \*f
.BR \-c | \-\-clear

.B \*f
.BR \-V | \-\-verify
.I filter
.
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \*f program lists, verifies, and changes the z/VM user ID filter of the
z/VM IUCV hypervisor console (HVC) device driver.

The z/VM user ID filter lists the z/VM guest virtual machines (user IDs) that
are permitted to establish IUCV communication paths with the z/VM IUCV HVC
device driver.

The filter list is a comma-separated list of z/VM user IDs as specified by the
\fBhvc_iucv_allow\fP kernel parameter.  A filter entry might end with an
asterisk (*) to match multiple z/VM user IDs.  Use \*f to change the filter
list at runtime.

\*f works with the currently active filter or with filter files that list each
z/VM user ID on a separate line. Filter files might also contain comment lines
starting with '#'.
.br
You can edit and verify existing filter files and replace the current
z/VM user ID filter.
.
.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display a short help text, then exit.
.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Display the version of \*f, then exit.
.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-list
Display the z/VM user IDs contained in the current filter.

Using this parameter requires root authority.
.
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-edit " [" \fIfilter\fP ]
Edit the current z/VM user ID filter.

\fIfilter\fP specifies a filter file listing z/VM user IDs.
If \fIfilter\fP is not specified, the entries of the current z/VM user ID
filter are used.

The filter is opened temporarily in an editor program.  When the editor is
closed, the changed filter is verified and, if verification succeeds, the
current filter is replaced.  Otherwise a backup copy is saved for correcting
errors.

Using this parameter requires root authority.
.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-clear
Clear the current z/VM user ID filter by deleting all user ID entries.

Using this parameter requires root authority.
.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-set " " "\fIfilter\fP"
Replace the current filter with the filter entries specified by \fIfilter\fP.
The current filter can be replaced only after the new filter has been
successfully verified.

Using this parameter requires root authority.
.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-verify " " "\fIfilter\fP"
Verify the z/VM user ID filter specified by \fIfilter\fP.

The verification process checks the following rules:
.RS 10
.IP "\(bu" 2
z/VM user IDs consist of up to eight alphanumeric characters or underscores (_)
.IP "\(bu" 2
The total number of z/VM user IDs in the filter must not exceed 500
.IP "\(bu" 2
The filter size in bytes must not exceed 4095 bytes
.RE
.
.
.
.SH "FILES"
.TP
.B /sys/module/kernel/parameters/hvc_iucv_allow
sysfs attribute for accessing the \fBhvc_iucv_allow\fP kernel parameter.
Use \*f to modify and access this sysfs attribute.
.
.
.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP
.B EDITOR
Specifies an editor program that is used for editing z/VM user ID filters.
If \fBEDITOR\fP is not set or empty,
.BR vi (1)
is used.
.
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR hvc_iucv (9)

.I "Linux on System z - Device Drivers, Features, and Commands"
