.\" iucvtty.1
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright IBM Corp. 2008, 2017
.\" s390-tools is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH iucvtty "1" "March 2009" "s390-tools" "IUCV terminal applications"
.
.ds t \fBiucvtty\fP
.ds i \fBiucvconn\fP
.
.
.
.SH NAME
iucvtty \- allow remote logins over z/VM IUCV
.
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B iucvtty
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.br
.B iucvtty
.RB [ \-v | \-\-version ]
.br
.B iucvtty
.RB [ \-a | \-\-allow-from
.IR regex ]
.IR terminal_id
.RB [\-\-
.IR login_program " [" login_options ]]
.
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \*t application provides full-screen terminal access to a Linux instance
running as a z/VM guest operating system.
The \*i application is used to connect to a running \*t instance.

The terminal connection is based on the z/VM Inter-User Communication Vehicle
(IUCV). z/VM IUCV establishes a communication path between two z/VM guest
virtual machines on the same z/VM instance.
Because z/VM IUCV is independent from TCP/IP, Linux instances with no external
network can be accessed.

\fIterminal_id\fP identifies the z/VM IUCV connection and is similar to a port
number in TCP/IP communications.  \fIterminal_id\fP is case-sensitive and
consists of up to 8 alphanumeric characters.
It must be specified as a parameter in connection requests against
a \*t instance.

When a connection is established, \*t starts a login program.
When the login program ends, \*t also exits. Consider an
.BR inittab (5)
entry
.\"or an upstart job file
to ensure that \*t is restarted and ready for the next terminal session.
.
.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\^h ", " \-\^\-help
Display a short help text and exit.
.
.TP
.BR \-\^v ", " \-\^\-version
Display the version number of \*t, then exit.
.
.TP
.BR \-\^a ", " \-\^\-allow-from " " \fIregex\fP
Limit permissions for incoming connections to z/VM user IDs that match
the regular expression \fIregex\fP. The connection is refused if the ID
does not match. If this parameter is omitted, connections are permitted
from any z/VM user ID.
.
.TP
.I login_program
\fIlogin_program\fP specifies the absolute path to the login program to be
started when a connection is established.
The default is
.BR /bin/login (1).
.br
The \fIlogin_program\fP must be separated by two dashes (--).
.
.TP
.I login_options
Depending on the particular login program used, \fIlogin_options\fP specifies
additional options.
.
.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
To allow remote logins using the terminal identifier "lnxterm":
.PP
.ft CR
.in +0.25in
.nf
iucvtty lnxterm
.fi
.in -0.25in
.ft

To only allow users from LNXSYS01 to connect to terminal "lnxterm":
.PP
.ft CR
.in +0.25in
.nf
iucvtty -a LNXSYS01 lnxterm
.fi
.in -0.25in
.ft

To only allow users from LNXSYS10 through LNXSYS19 to connect to terminal
"lnxterm":
.PP
.ft CR
.in +0.25in
.nf
iucvtty -a "LNXSYS1[0-9]" lnxterm
.fi
.in -0.25in
.ft

To use \fB/sbin/sulogin\fP instead of \fB/bin/login\fP for terminal "suterm":
.PP
.ft CR
.in +0.25in
.nf
iucvtty suterm -- /sbin/sulogin
.fi
.in -0.25in
.ft

An entry in \fB/etc/inittab\fP to facilitate user logins on terminal "lnxterm"
with \fB/bin/login\fP could be:
.PP
.ft CR
.in +0.25in
.nf
t1:2345:respawn:/usr/bin/iucvtty lnxterm
.fi
.in -0.25in
.ft

An entry in \fB/etc/inittab\fP to facilitate user logins on terminal "suterm"
with \fB/sbin/sulogin\fP in single user mode could be:
.PP
.ft CR
.in +0.25in
.nf
s1:S:respawn:/usr/bin/iucvtty suterm -- /sbin/sulogin
.fi
.in -0.25in
.ft
.
.
.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If the Linux kernel does not include kernel support for the AF_IUCV network
addressing family, \*t exits and displays the message
.I 'AF_IUCV address family is not available: Address family not supported by
.IR protocol' "."
.
.
.
.SH SECURITY
.SS Linux
The \*t program can be used by regular users.
Depending on the particular login program, \*t must be started with superuser
privileges for user authentication and authorization. For instance,
\fB/bin/login\fP requires superuser privileges and, thus, regular users
must use a different login program.

Each connection attempt is logged to the \fBauthpriv\fP syslog facility.

\*t uses pseudo-terminal (pts) devices to communicate with the
login program. For security reasons, some login programs, like
\fB/bin/login\fP, do not permit root logins on pseudo-terminal devices (see also
.BR /etc/securetty "(5))."

To permit root logins, consider using HVC terminal devices that are provided by
the z/VM IUCV hypervisor console (HVC) device driver.
.\"Enabling root logins on pseudo-terminal devices can compromise system security.
.\"To avoid this potential security exposure, consider using HVC terminal devices
.\"that are provided by the z/VM IUCV hypervisor console (HVC) device driver.
.
.
.
.SS z/VM guest virtual machine
See the
.BR af_iucv (7)
manual page for details about IUCV authorizations.
.
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR iucvconn (1),
.BR login (1),
.BR pts (4),
.BR regex (7),
.BR securetty (5),
.BR af_iucv (7),
.BR hvc_iucv (9)
