.\" iucvconn.1
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright IBM Corp. 2008, 2017
.\" s390-tools is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH iucvconn "1" "March 2009" "s390-tools" "IUCV terminal applications"
.
.ds i \fBiucvconn\fP
.
.
.
.SH NAME
iucvconn \- start terminal connection over z/VM IUCV
.
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B iucvconn
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.br
.B iucvconn
.RB [ \-v | \-\-version ]
.br
.B iucvconn
.RB [ \-e | \-\-escape-char
.IR escape_char ]
.RB [ \-s | \-\-sessionlog
.IR log_file ]
.I vm_guest
.I terminal_id
.
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \*i application establishes a terminal connection to another
Linux instance. The Linux instance where \*i runs and the target Linux instance
must be z/VM guest operating systems of the same z/VM instance.
The communication path between both virtual machines is based on the z/VM
Inter-User Communication Vehicle (IUCV).
Because z/VM IUCV is independent from TCP/IP, Linux instances with no external
network can be accessed.
.PP
\*i accesses the terminal specified by \fIterminal_id\fP on the z/VM guest
virtual machine \fIvm_guest\fP.
The \fIterminal_id\fP is similar to a port number in TCP/IP communications.
.
\fIterminal_id\fP is case-sensitive and consists of up to 8 alphanumeric
characters. \fIterminal_id\fP must either identify a running \fBiucvtty\fP
instance, or a terminal device provided by the z/VM IUCV hypervisor console
(HVC) device driver.
.
.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display a short help text, then exit.
.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Display the version number of \*i, then exit.
.
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-escape-char\~\fIescape_char\fP
Set an escape character for this terminal session. You need an escape character
to access special \*i functions. The default escape character is underscore (_).
If \fIescape_char\fP is set to "none", escaping is not possible.
The escape character can be the closing bracket (]), the caret (^), the
underscore (_), or any alphabetical character except C, D, Q, S and Z.
The \fIescape_char\fP character is not case-sensitive.

To invoke a \*i function, press Ctrl\^+\^\fIescape_char\fP, followed
by the function character. For example, press "Ctrl\^+\^_ d" to disconnect the
terminal session and exit \*i.

For details, see section "ESCAPE CHARACTERS" below.
.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-sessionlog\~\fIlogfile\fP
Create a transcript of the terminal session and write session data to three
different files.

\fIlog_file\fP contains the raw terminal data stream. The
.I log_file\fB.timing\fP
file contains timing data that can be used for replaying the raw terminal data
stream using realistic output delays.
Additional terminal session information is logged to
.IR log_file\fB.info\fP "."

If any of these files already exist, \*i exits with an error. To proceed
either delete the files or choose another file name for \fIlog_file\fP.
.
.
.
.SH "ESCAPE CHARACTERS"
\*i supports functions through the use of an escape character.
The default escape character (\fIescape_char\fP) is underscore (_).

To enter the "escape mode" of \*i, press the Control and the \fIescape_char\fP
key together ("Ctrl\^+\^_") In the "escape mode", \*i expects a single character
designating the special function.

The special functions are (assuming \fIescape_char\fP is set to underscore (_)):
.RS 4
.IP "\fBCtrl\^+\^_\fP" 8
Send the escape character to the connected terminal.
.IP "\fB.\fP or \fBd\fP" 8
Disconnect and exit \*i.
.IP "\fBr\fP" 8
Force resizing of the connected terminal.
.RE
.PP
Any other single character is ignored and is not send to the terminal. If
multiple characters are entered together, \*i leaves the "escape mode" and sends
the characters to the connected terminal.
.
.\" FIXME: change "connected terminal" to terminal
.
.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
To access the "lnxterm" terminal on the Linux instance in
z/VM guest virtual machine LNXSYS01:
.PP
.ft CR
.in +0.25in
.nf
iucvconn LNXSYS01 lnxterm
.fi
.in -0.25in
.ft
.PP
To access the first z/VM IUCV HVC terminal on the Linux instance in
z/VM guest virtual machine LNXSYS02:
.PP
.ft CR
.in +0.25in
.nf
iucvconn LNXSYS02 lnxhvc0
.fi
.in -0.25in
.ft
.PP
To create a transcript of the terminal session to the Linux instance in
z/VM guest virtual machine LNXSYS99:
.PP
.ft CR
.in +0.25in
.nf
iucvconn -s ~/transcripts/lnxsys99 LNXSYS99 lnxhvc0
.fi
.in -0.25in
.ft
.
.
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TERM
The terminal environment variable contains the name of the terminal
(e.g. linux, xterm, ...) and also specifies the terminal capabilities.

\*i transfers the value of the \fBTERM\fP environment variable at connection
startup to the target system. The \fBiucvtty\fP application sets the
\fBTERM\fP environment variable on the target system before the login program
is started.
Setting the \fBTERM\fP environment variable ensures that the terminal
capabilities are the same on both sides of the connection.

The z/VM IUCV hypervisor console (HVC) device driver ignores the content of
the \fBTERM\fP environment variable transferred by \*i. See the
.BR hvc_iucv (9)
manual page for instructions to configure the terminal environment.
.
.
.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If the Linux kernel does not include kernel support for the AF_IUCV network
addressing family, \*i exits and displays the message
.I 'AF_IUCV address family is not available: Address family not supported by
.IR protocol' "."
.
.
.
.SH SECURITY
.SS Linux
The \*i program does not require superuser privileges and can be used by
regular users.  Each connection attempt and failure is logged to the
.BR authpriv
syslog facility.
.\".PP
.\"Depending on the login program started by the \fBiucvtty\fP program,
.\"the user must authenticate to the remote system.
.PP
Terminal session transcripts facilitate logging and auditing of terminal
activity on remote systems or recording and playing back terminal sessions,
for example for education and presentations.
.
.
.SS z/VM guest virtual machine
The z/VM guest virtual machine must have authorization to establish IUCV
communication paths to other z/VM guest virtual machines.

See the
.BR af_iucv (7)
manual page for details about IUCV authorizations.
.
.
.
.SH NOTES
The Linux instance where \*i runs and the target Linux instances
must be z/VM guest operating systems of the same z/VM instance.
.
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR iucvtty (1),
.BR hvc_iucv (9),
.BR af_iucv (7),
.BR scriptreplay (1)

.I "Linux on System z - Device Drivers, Features, and Commands"
