.\" Copyright 2021 IBM Corp.
.\" s390-tools is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.
.\"
.TH HSAVMCORE 8 "May 2021" "s390-tools"
.
.SH NAME
hsavmcore - Enable kdump to release the HSA memory early in the dump process
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hsavmcore
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hsavmcore
is designed to make the dump process with kdump more efficient.
The HSA memory contains a part of the production kernel's memory.
Use hsavmcore to cache this information and release HSA memory early in the process.
.PP
Depending on the size of the production kernel's memory, writing the dump to persistent
storage can be time consuming and prevent the HSA memory from being reused by other LPARs.
.
The
.B hsavmcore
tool performs these steps:
.IP "  1)"
Read the size of the HSA memory from
.B /sys/kernel/debug/zcore/hsa.
.IP "  2)"
Cache the HSA memory content contained in
.B /proc/vmcore
either in regular memory or within the file system.
.IP "  3)"
Releases the HSA memory by writing to
.B /sys/kernel/debug/zcore/hsa.
.PP
At this stage, the HSA memory region is unavailable to
.B /proc/vmcore
and cannot be used by kdump.
.
The
.B hsavmcore
tool now combines the cached HSA memory and the non-HSA memory from the original
.B /proc/vmcore
to create a replacement for
.B /proc/vmcore.
.
The replacement
.B /proc/vmcore
can be processed as usual.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fP or \fB\-\-help\fP
Print usage information and exit.
.
.TP
\fB\-v\fP or \fB\-\-version\fP
Print version information and exit.
.
.TP
\fB\-V\fP or \fB\-\-verbose\fP
Print verbose messages to stdout. Repeat this option for increased verbosity
from just error messages to also include warning, information, debug, and trace messages.
This option is intended for debugging.
.
.TP
\fB\-c\fP or \fB\-\-config\fP \fICONFIGFILE\fP
Path to the configuration file. By default, no configuration file is used.
.
.TP
\fB\-C\fP or \fB\-\-vmcore\fP \fIVMCOREFILE\fP
Path to the vmcore file. Default:
.B /proc/vmcore.
.
.TP
\fB\-H\fP or \fB\-\-hsa\fP \fIZCOREHSAFILE\fP
Path to the zcore HSA file. Default:
.B /sys/kernel/debug/zcore/hsa.
.
.TP
\fB\-W\fP or \fB\-\-workdir\fP \fIWORKDIR\fP
Path to the work directory where temporary files can be stored. Default:
.B /var/crash.
.
.TP
\fB\-B\fP or \fB\-\-bmvmcore\fP \fIVMCOREFILE\fP
Path to the target of the bind mount for the replacement vmcore file. Default:
.B /proc/vmcore.
.
.TP
\fB\-S\fP or \fB\-\-swap\fP \fIPATH\fP
Path to a swap device or file. The specified swap device or file must exist and have the proper
swap format. Default: no swap device or file is activated.
.
.TP
\fB\-T\fP or \fB\-\-hsasize\fP \fIHSASIZE\fP
HSA size in bytes. Used for testing purposes. Default: -1 (read from the zcore HSA file).
.
.TP
\fB\-D\fP or \fB\-\-dbgfsmnt\fP
Mount the debug file system. Default: the debug file system is not mounted.
.
.TP
\fB\-F\fP or \fB\-\-hsamem\fP
Cache the HSA memory in regular memory. Default: the HSA memory is cached as a file
within WORKDIR.
.
.TP
\fB\-R\fP or \fB\-\-norelhsa\fP
Do NOT release the HSA memory after caching. Default: the HSA memory is released.
.
.TP
\fB\-N\fP or \fB\-\-nobindmnt\fP
Do NOT replace the system's vmcore file. Default: the system's vmcore file is replaced.
.
.TP
\fB\-G\fP or \fB\-\-fusedbg\fP
Enable FUSE debugging. Default: FUSE debugging is disabled.
.RE
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B To run hsavmcore on a kdump system during a stand-alone dump with default parameters:
.RS 4
hsavmcore
.br
makedumpfile \-d 31 /proc/vmcore test-dump.elf
.RE
.TP
.B To test hsavmcore with a vmcore copy and without being in a kdump system (for debugging):
.RS 4
hsavmcore \-VVV \-T 0x1ffff000 \-C vmcore-dump.elf \-N \-R
.br
makedumpfile \-d 31 /tmp/hsavmcore-overlay/vmcore test-dump.elf
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hsavmcore.conf (5)
