.\" Copyright 2021 IBM Corp.
.\" s390-tools is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.
.\"
.TH HSAVMCORE.CONF 5 "May 2021" "s390-tools"
.SH NAME
hsavmcore.conf \- Configuration file for the hsavmcore tool
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B hsavmcore.conf
configuration file contains the configuration information for
the
.B hsavmcore
tool.

All specifications in the configuration file are optional.
The command defaults apply for omitted parameters.
.
.SS "verbose"
This parameter sets the verbosity level of the output messages.
The following pre-defined numeric values can be used:
.
.RS 2
.IP "-" 2
\fB0\fP - show only error messages (default)
.IP "-" 2
\fB1\fP - show error and warning messages
.IP "-" 2
\fB2\fP - show error, warning and information messages
.IP "-" 2
\fB3\fP - show error, warning, information and debug messages
.IP "-" 2
\fB4\fP - show error, warning, information, debug and trace messages
.RE
.PP
.
.SS "mount_debugfs"
Mount (1) or do not mount (0) debugfs. Use this configuration if the kdump kernel
does not mount the debugfs during the boot process.
.
.SS "workdir"
Specifies a work directory on the kdump system where the hsavmcore tool can create
temporary files. This specification is required if
.B use_hsa_mem
is set to 0.
.
.SS "use_hsa_mem"
Cache the HSA memory in regular memory (1) or in a file on a file system (0).
.
.SS "hsa_size"
Specify a value, in bytes, for the HSA memory size instead of reading the size
from
.B /sys/kernel/debug/zcore/hsa.
This parameter is intended only to test
the
.B hsavmcore
tool without being in a kdump kernel. Specifying -1 falls back
to reading the size from
.B /sys/kernel/debug/zcore/hsa.
.
.SS "release_hsa"
Release (1) or do not release (0) the HSA memory after it is cached by
the
.B hsavmcore
tool.
.
.SS "bind_mount_vmcore"
Replace (1) the original vmcore file with the new file created by the
.B hsavmcore
tool or keep the original file (0), which no longer contains the information
from the HSA memory. Set this parameter to 1 if you intend to use kdump tools to
create a core dump.
.
.SS "swap"
Specify a swap device or file through its path in a kdump system.
The specified swap device or file must exist and have the proper swap format.
You might need a swap device because the amount of memory available in the kdump
kernel during a stand-alone dump is limited to the size of the HSA memory.
.
.SS "fuse_debug"
Enable (1) or disable (0) fuse debugging.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
A complete configuration file could look like this:

.nf
------------------------------ config file start ------------------------------
# Example configuration for hsavmcore

# 0 - ERROR
# 1 - WARN
# 2 - INFO
# 3 - DEBUG
# 4 - TRACE
verbose = 3

workdir = /var/crash

mount_debugfs = 1

use_hsa_mem = 1

hsa_size = -1
release_hsa = 1

bind_mount_vmcore = 1

swap = /dev/disk/by-uuid/3cf6630b-4c4d-49ac-a0ae-0f5484cb5721
#swap = /swap.img

fuse_debug = 0
------------------------------ config file end ------------------------------
.fi

.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hsavmcore (8)
