.\" Copyright IBM Corp. 2025

.TH "PVVERIFY" "1" "2025-12-09" "s390-tools" "Pvverify Manual"
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
pvverify \- Tool to verify host-keys
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.fam C
pvverify [OPTIONS] --host-key-document <FILE> <--no-verify|--cert <FILE>>
.fam C
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Tool to verify host\-keys. Use this tool to verify the chain of trust for IBM
Secure
.SH OPTIONS

.PP
\-k, \-\-host\-key\-document <FILE>
.RS 4
Use FILE as a host\-key document. Can be specified multiple times and must be
specified at least once.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-no\-verify
.RS 4
Disable the host\-key document verification. Does not require the host\-key
documents to be valid. Do not use for a production request unless you verified
the host\-key document beforehand.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-C, \-\-cert <FILE>
.RS 4
Use FILE as a certificate to verify the host\-key or keys. The certificates are
used to establish a chain of trust for the verification of the host\-key
documents. Specify this option twice to specify the IBM Z signing key and the
intermediate CA certificate (signed by the root CA).
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-crl <FILE>
.RS 4
Use FILE as a certificate revocation list (CRL). The list is used to check
whether a certificate of the chain of trust is revoked. Specify this option
multiple times to use multiple CRLs.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-offline
.RS 4
Make no attempt to download CRLs.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-root\-ca <ROOT_CA>
.RS 4
Use FILE as the root\-CA certificate for the verification. If omitted, the
system wide\-root CAs installed on the system are used. Use this only if you
trust the specified certificate.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-version
.RS 4
Print version information and exit.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-h, \-\-help
.RS 4
Print help (see a summary with \fB\-h\fR).
.RE
.RE
