.\" Copyright 2017 IBM Corp.
.\" s390-tools is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.
.\"
.TH CHREIPL 8 "July 2010" "s390-tools"

.SH NAME
chreipl \- change the re-IPL configuration for Linux on System z

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBchreipl\fP [TARGET] [OPTIONS]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Use the \fBchreipl\fP tool to modify the re-IPL configuration for Linux on
System z. You can configure a certain boot device and, for zipl boot
menu configurations, the boot menu entry that will be used for the next
reboot. Also kernel parameters for the next Linux kernel can be defined.

Initial program load (IPL) is the mainframe synonym for what is called
"boot" under Linux. Accordingly re-IPL can be translated to "reboot" in the
non-mainframe context.

Normally for reboot the last IPL device is used to restart the system. To reboot
from another IPL device, you first have to change the re-IPL settings with
\fBchreipl\fP and then run the
.BR reboot (8)
command.

All settings made with
\fBchreipl\fP are preserved over reboots until they are changed again.
.SH TARGET

The first argument specifies the re-IPL target:
.RS 3
.TP 8
.RB "- " ccw :
Specify a DASD CCW device for reboot
.TP
.RB "- " fcp :
Specify a FCP device for reboot
.TP
.RB "- " nvme :
Specify an NVMe device for reboot
.TP
.RB "- " nss :
Specify a named saved system (NSS) for reboot
.TP
.RB "- " node :
Specify a device for reboot using a device node or directory
.RE
.PP
If the target specification is non-ambiguous it can be omitted. See section
\fBAUTOTARGET\fP for more information. Ambiguous setups are very rare,
e.g. the name of a device node theoretically could be the same as a bus-ID.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR "\-f" " or " "\-\-force"
With this option, you can force the re-IPL from a target device even
if the target cannot be verified by the system. This is the case, for
example, if the device is on the cio_ignore blacklist.

.B Note:
Use this option with great care. You can specify non-existing devices, which
will cause the re-IPL to fail.

.TP
.BR "\-p" " or " "\-\-bootparms"
Specifies boot parameters for the next reboot. The boot parameters which
are typically kernel parameters are appended to the kernel parameter line.
If you specify the boot parameters with a leading equal sign (=), the
boot parameters replace all parameters on the kernel parameter line. To
remove boot parameters, specify an empty string for this option.

Depending on the chreipl target a different maximum number of characters
is allowed for boot parameters. Under LPAR it is not possible to specify boot
parameters for the ccw target.

.B Note:
When replacing all parameters, you might inadvertently omit parameters that
the boot configuration requires. Read
.B /proc/cmdline
to find out with which parameters a running Linux instance has been started.

.TP
.BR "\-h" " or " "\-\-help"
Print help information, then exit.

.TP
.BR "\-v" " or " "\-\-version"
Print version information, then exit.

.PP
All other options are specific to the re-IPL target and are discussed below in
the respective section. For a more detailed description of the Linux on
System z IPL mechanisms see
.BR zipl.conf (6).
The mandatory options (e.g. device, wwpn, lun, etc.) can also be specified
as positional parameters.
.SH AUTOTARGET
For the ccw, fcp, and node targets \fBchreipl\fP can find automatically
the correct re-IPL target. To do this, omit the re-IPL target parameter and
start specifying the required positional parameters.
.PP
\fBExamples:\fP
.br

1. Next time reboot from the DASD device /dev/dasda using the first boot
configuration:
.br

\fB# chreipl /dev/dasda -L 1\fP
.br

2. Next time reboot from the CCW device with the bus-ID 0.0.7e78 and empty
loadparm:

\fB# chreipl 0.0.7e78 \fP

3. Next time reboot from the SCSI disk with FCP bus-ID 0.0.1700,
WWPN 0x500507630300c562, and LUN 0x401040b300000000. In addition to that
append kernel parameter "mem=" to restrict memory to 512 MB:

\fB# chreipl 0.0.1700 0x500507630300c562 0x401040b300000000 -p "mem=512M"\fP

4. Next time reboot from the NVMe device with function id 0x13, namespace 1:

\fB# chreipl nvme 0x13 1

.SH ccw
Use the ccw re-IPL target for DASD devices that are accessed by the hardware
using channel command word (CCW) channels.
.TP
.BR "\-d" " or " "\-\-device"
Specifies the CCW bus-ID. If the bus-ID starts with "0.0." this prefix
can be omitted and the four digit short notation can be used (e.g. 5000 is
the same as 0.0.5000).

.TP
.BR "\-L" " or " "\-\-loadparm"
Specifies an entry in the
.BR zipl (8)
boot menu. If this option is omitted, the default menu entry is used.

.TP
.BR "\-c" " or " "\-\-clear"
Specify whether memory should be cleared on re-IPL. Possible values are 0 to
disable and 1 to enable memory clearing on re-IPL.
Memory clearing is supported if the "clear" attribute is present in
/sys/firmware/reipl/ccw/.

.PP
\fBExamples:\fP
.br

1. Next time reboot from the CCW device with the bus-ID 0.0.7e78 and empty
loadparm:

\fB# chreipl ccw 0.0.7e78\fP

2. Next time reboot from the CCW device with the bus-ID 0.0.7e78
using the first entry of the zipl boot menu:

\fB# chreipl ccw -d 0.0.7e78 -L 1\fP
.SH fcp
Use the fcp re-IPL target for SCSI disks that are accessed by the hardware
using Fibre Channel Protocol (FCP) channels.
.TP
.BR "\-d" " or " "\-\-device"
Specifies the bus-ID of the FCP adapter that should be used to access
the SCSI re-IPL device. If the bus-ID starts with "0.0." this prefix
can be omitted and the four digit short notation can be used (e.g. 5000 is
the same as 0.0.5000).

.TP
.BR "\-w" " or " "\-\-wwpn"
Specifies the world wide port name (WWPN) for the FCP attached SCSI disk.

.TP
.BR "\-l" " or " "\-\-lun"
Specifies the logical unit number (LUN) for the FCP attached SCSI disk.

.TP
.BR "\-b" " or " "\-\-bootprog"
Specifies an entry in the FCP boot configuration by defining the IPL boot
program selector. If omitted, '0' will be used.

.TP
.BR "\-L" " or " "\-\-loadparm"
The loadparm for the fcp re-IPL target is not used to control the FCP boot
configuration that is defined by the
.BR zipl (8)
boot menu. Instead it can be used to control higher level boot loaders
like GRUB. For more details refer to distribution specific documentation.

.TP
.BR "\-c" " or " "\-\-clear"
Specify whether memory should be cleared on re-IPL. Possible values are 0 to
disable and 1 to enable memory clearing on re-IPL.
Memory clearing is supported if the "clear" attribute is present in
/sys/firmware/reipl/fcp/.

.PP
\fBExamples:\fP
.br

1. Next time reboot from the SCSI disk with FCP bus-ID 0.0.1700,
WWPN 0x500507630300c562, LUN 0x401040b300000000, and boot program selector 0:
.br

\fB# chreipl fcp 0.0.1700 0x500507630300c562 0x401040b300000000\fP
.br

2. Use same configuration as (1) but choose boot program selector 2 and
use options instead of positional parameters:
.br

\fB# chreipl fcp -d 0.0.1700 -w 0x5005076... -l 0x401040b3... -b 2\fP
.SH nvme
Use the nvme re-IPL target for specifying an NVMe disk for reboot.
.TP
.BR "\-i" " or " "\-\-fid"
PCI Function ID of NVME IPL device (hex).

.TP
.BR "\-s" " or " "\-\-nsid"
Namespace ID of the NVME IPL device (decimal, default 1).

.TP
.BR "\-b" " or " "\-\-bootprog"
Specifies an entry in the boot configuration by defining the IPL boot
program selector. If omitted, '0' will be used.

.TP
.BR "\-L" " or " "\-\-loadparm"
The loadparm for the nvme re-IPL target is not used to control the boot
configuration that is defined by the
.BR zipl (8)
boot menu. Instead it can be used to control higher level boot loaders
like GRUB. For more details refer to distribution specific documentation.

.TP
.BR "\-c" " or " "\-\-clear"
Specify whether memory should be cleared on re-IPL. Possible values are 0 to
disable and 1 to enable memory clearing on re-IPL.
Memory clearing is supported if the "clear" attribute is present in
/sys/firmware/reipl/nvme/.

.PP
\fBExamples:\fP
.br

1. Next time reboot from the NVMe disk with function-id 0x13 and namespace 1:
.br

\fB# chreipl nvme 0x13 1\fP
.br

2. Use same configuration as (1) but choose boot program selector 2 and
use options instead of positional parameters:
.br

\fB# chreipl nvme -i 0x13 -s 1 -b 2\fP
.SH nss
Use the nss re-IPL target to specify z/VM named saved systems (NSS) for
reboot.
.TP
.BR "\-n" " or " "\-\-name"
Specifies the name of the NSS.
.PP
\fBExamples:\fP
.br

Use the NSS named LINUX1 for the next reboot:

\fB# chreipl nss LINUX1\fP
.SH node
You can identify DASD, SCSI, or NVMe re-IPL devices indirectly through a device
node or directory. The chreipl tool then determines the information
that you would otherwise have to specify with the ccw or fcp target.
.PP
\fBExamples:\fP
.br

1. Next time reboot from the DASD device /dev/dasda:
.br

\fB# chreipl node /dev/dasda\fP
.br

2. Next time reboot from the SCSI disk /dev/sda:
.br

\fB# chreipl node /dev/sda\fP

3. Next time reboot from the device where directory /mnt/boot is located:
.br

\fB# chreipl node /mnt/boot\fP

4. Next time reboot from the NVMe device represented by /dev/nvme0n1
.br

\fB# chreipl node /dev/nvme0n1\fP

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lsreipl (8),
.BR zipl (8),
.BR zipl.conf (5),
.BR reboot (8)
