.\" Copyright 2017 IBM Corp.
.\" s390-tools is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.
.\"
.TH CHSHUT 8 "Sept 2011" "s390-tools"

.SH NAME
chshut \- change the shutdown actions for Linux on System z

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBchshut\fR TRIGGER ACTION [VM Command]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Use \fBchshut\fR to configure the Linux on System z shutdown actions.

The tool handles up to three parameters. The first parameter specifies
the shutdown trigger. A shutdown trigger is an event that will stop Linux.
The following shutdown triggers are supported: "halt", "poff", and "reboot".
There are two other shutdown triggers "panic" and "restart" that are
controlled by the
.BR dumpconf (8)
service script.

The second parameter specifies the shutdown action that you want to run
if the specified trigger occurs. Valid action arguments are "ipl", "reipl",
"stop", and "vmcmd".

If you have chosen "vmcmd" as action, a third parameter is required for the
CP command you want to execute under z/VM.

.B Note:
VM CP commands, device addresses, and guest names must be uppercase.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h\fR or \fB--help\fR
Print help information, then exit.

.TP
\fB-v\fR or \fB--version\fR
Print version information, then exit.

.SH EXAMPLES
Log off the z/VM guest if the Linux
.BR poweroff (8)
command was executed successfully:

\fB# chshut poff vmcmd LOGOFF\fR

If the system is halted it should start again:

\fB# chshut halt ipl\fR

If the Linux
.BR poweroff (8)
command is executed, send a message to guest MASTER and automatically log off
the guest:

\fB# chshut poff vmcmd "MSG MASTER Going down" vmcmd "LOGOFF"\fR

.SH NOTES

For most Linux distributions, "halt" is mapped by default to "power off".
In this case you have to use the shutdown trigger "poff" instead of "halt".

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dumpconf (8)
.BR lsshut (8)
