.\" Copyright 2024, 2025 IBM Corp.
.\" s390-tools is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.
.\"

.TH "PVATTEST-CHECK" "1" "2025-03-12" "s390-tools" "Attestation Manual"
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
pvattest-check \- Check if the attestation result matches defined policies
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.fam C
pvattest check [OPTIONS] <IN> <OUT>
.fam C
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
After the attestation verification, check whether the attestation result
complies with user\-defined policies.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
<IN>
.RS 4
Specify the attestation response to check whether the policies are validated.
.RE
.RE
.PP
<OUT>
.RS 4
Specify the output file for the check result.
.RE
.RE

.PP
\-\-format <FORMAT>
.RS 4
Define the output format.
[default: 'yaml']

Possible values:
.RS 4
\- \fByaml\fP: Use yaml format.

.RE
.RE
.PP
\-k, \-\-host\-key\-document <FILE>
.RS 4
Use FILE to check for a host\-key document. Verifies that the attestation
response contains the host\-key hash of one of the specified host keys. The
check fails if none of the host\-keys match the hash in the response. This
parameter can be specified multiple times.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-host\-key\-check <HOST_KEY_CHECKS>
.RS 4
Define the host\-key check policy By default, all host\-key hashes are checked,
and it is not considered a failure if a hash is missing from the attestation
response. Use this policy switch to trigger a failure if no corresponding hash
is found. Requires at least one host\-key document.

Possible values:
.RS 4
\- \fBatt-key-hash\fP: Check the host-key used for the attestation request.

\- \fBboot-key-hash\fP: Check the host-key used to the boot the image.

.RE
.RE
.PP
\-u, \-\-user\-data <FILE>
.RS 4
Check if the provided user data matches the data from the attestation response.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-secret <FILE>
.RS 4
Use FILE to include as successful Add\-secret request. Checks if the Attestation
response contains the hash of all specified add secret requests\-tags. The hash
is sensible to the order in which the secrets where added. This means that if
the order of adding here different from the order the add\-secret requests where
sent to the UV this check will fail even though the same secrets are included in
the UV secret store. Can be specified multiple times.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-secret\-store\-locked <BOOL>
.RS 4
Check whether the guests secret store is locked or not. Compares the hash of the
secret store state to the one calculated by this option and optionally specified
add\-secret\-requests in the correct order. If the attestation response does not
contain a secret store hash, this check fails.

Required if add\-secret\-requests are specified.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-firmware
.RS 4
Check whether the firmware is supported by IBM. Requires internet access.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-firmware\-verify\-url <URL>
.RS 4
Specify the endpoint to use for firmware version verification. Use an endpoint
you trust. Requires the \-\-firmware option.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-h, \-\-help
.RS 4
Print help (see a summary with \fB\-h\fR).
.RE
.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
\fBpvattest\fR(1)
