.\" Copyright 2024, 2024 IBM Corp.
.\" s390-tools is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.
.\"

.TH CPACFINFO 1 "AUG 2024" "s390-tools"
.SH NAME
.B cpacfinfo
\- tool to provide information about CPACF

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cpacfinfo
[OPTIONS] [<INS>,...] [--format <FORMAT>]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cpacfinfo
is able to provide information about the MSA levels supported by the system as well as which
CPACF instructions and functions are available.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-m/\-\-msa
Displays which MSA levels are enabled and how many functions of the ones introduced by
this level are available. Can be combined with
.B \-f/\-\-functions
to list all functions under the corresponding MSA level. Can be combined with
.B \-i/\-\-instructions
to provide only specific instructions. Can be combined with
.B \-a/\-\-available -n/\-\-not-available
to filter the displayed function. Ignores option
.B \-q/\-\-quiet.
Can be combined with
.B \-\-format
to convert to JSON format.

.TP 8
.B \-f/\-\-functions
Displays subfunctions of CPACF instructions. Can be combined with
.B \-a/\-\-available
and
.B \-n/\-\-not-available
to filter what functions are displayed. By default
.B \-f/\-\-functions
will only provide information about available functions. Therefore
.B cpacfinfo \-f/\-\-functions
and
.B cpacfinfo \-f/\-\-functions \-\-available
show the same output. Use options
.B \-f/\-\-functions \-a/\-\-available \-n/\-\-not-available
together to show information about every function known by the tool. Additionally
.B cpacfinfo
shows available functions not known to the tool as "UNKNOWN".

.TP 8
.B \-i/\-\-instructions <INS>,...
Restricts output of CPACF instructions to be listed.
Multiple instructions can be supplied separated by "," to only show the supplied
instructions in the output. Other options like
.B \-\-quiet \-f/\-\-functions \-m/\-\-msa
or filters like
.B \-a/\-\-available \-n/\-\-not-available
can still be used to further limit output.

.nr PI 2n
Possible values for
.B <INS>
:
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
.B km
:    introduced with MSA

.IP \[bu] 2
.B kmc
:   introduced with MSA

.IP \[bu] 2
.B kimd
:  introduced with MSA

.IP \[bu] 2
.B klmd
:  introduced with MSA

.IP \[bu] 2
.B kmac
:  introduced with MSA

.IP \[bu] 2
.B pckmo
: introduced with MSA 3

.IP \[bu] 2
.B kmf
:   introduced with MSA 4

.IP \[bu] 2
.B kmctr
: introduced with MSA 4

.IP \[bu] 2
.B kmo
:   introduced with MSA 4

.IP \[bu] 2
.B pcc
:   introduced with MSA 4

.IP \[bu] 2
.B prno
:  introduced with MSA 5

.IP \[bu] 2
.B kma
:   introduced with MSA 8

.IP \[bu] 2
.B kdsa
:  introduced with MSA 9
.RE

.TP 8
.B \-a/\-\-available
Displays the CPACF subfunctions available on the system.
.B cpacfinfo \-f/\-\-functions
is the same as
.B cpacfinfo \-f/\-\-functions \-a/\-\-available
. If
.B -n/\-\-not-available
is specified no available functions are shown. To get available as well as functions not available use
.B cpacfinfo \-f/\-\-functions \-a/\-\-available \-n/\-\-not-available.

.TP 8
.B \-n/\-\-not-available
Displays the CPACF subfunctions known by the tool that are not-available on the system.
Depending on the Hardware not all MSA levels might be available which can be checked
with the
.B \-m/\-\-msa
option. In such cases it might not be obvious which functions of which instructions are available.
This option together with the
.B \-a/\-\-available
option shows all possible functions.

.TP 8
.B \-q/\-\-quiet
Suppresses the output of the Query Authentication Information.
By default
.B cpacfinfo
outputs the Query Authentication Information for every
Instruction. To keep outputs of other options clean and minimal this can be disabled
with this option.
On machines that do not provide /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpacf/ output will always look like this
option is supplied.

.TP 8
.B \-\-format <FORMAT>
Format output in the specified format. [default: 'human']

If option
.B \-m/\-\-msa
is specified the JSON output will equal to
.B cpacfinfo -m
without any other specified options. If
.B \-m/\-\-msa
is NOT specified the JSON output will equal to
.B cpacfinfo -f
without any other specified options.

.nr PI 2n
Possible values for
.B <FORMAT>
:
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
.B human
: Use human readable format.

.IP \[bu] 2
.B json
:  Use JSON format.
.RE

.TP 8
.B \-v/\-\-version
Print version information and exit.

.TP 8
.B \-h/\-\-help
Print help (see a summary with \-h')

.SH Query Authentication Information
The Query Authentication Information is available since MSA 13 and if it is available
.B cpacfinfo
will display it by default. Query Authentication Information is available for every CPACF
instruction and contains the following:
.nr PI 2n
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
.B Format
:       This format specifies how the binary blob read from sysfs is to be parsed and says nothing
about the Query Authentication Information itself.

.IP \[bu] 2
.B Hash length
:  The hash length specifies the length of the hash in bytes.

.IP \[bu] 2
.B IFCL version
: The IFCL version specifies the instruction's firmware code level.

.IP \[bu] 2
.B Hash
:         The hash of the firmware code level of the corresponding instruction.
.RE

