.\" Copyright 2022 IBM Corp.
.\" s390-tools is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.
.\"
.TH pvattest-create 1 "07 June 2022" "s390-tools" "Attestation Manual"
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
\fBpvattest [OPTION?] create [OPTIONS] \fP- create an attestation measurement request
\fB
.SH DESCRIPTION
Prepare attestation measurement requests for an IBM Secure Execution guest.
Only prepare attestation requests in a trusted environment, such as your workstation.
The 'pvattest create' command creates a randomly generated key to protect the attestation request.
This key is only valid for this specific request. In order to avoid compromising the attestation,
do not publish the protection key and delete it after verification.
Every 'create' command generates a new, random protection key.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
Prints usage information, then exits.
.TP
.B
\fB-k\fP, \fB--host-key-document\fP=\fBFILE\fP
Specify one or more host key documents. At least one is required.
Specify this option multiple times to enable the image to run on more than one host.
.TP
.B
\fB-C\fP, \fB--cert\fP=\fBFILE\fP
Specifies  the  certificate that is used to establish a chain of trust for the verification of the host-key documents. Specify this option twice to specify the IBM Z signing key and the intermediate CA certificate (signed by the root CA). Required. Ignored when \fB--no-verify\fP is specified.
.TP
.B
\fB--crl\fP=\fBFILE\fP
Specifies the revocation list that is used to check whether a certificate of the chain of trust is
revoked. Specify this option multiple times to use multiple CRLs (optional).
.TP
.B
\fB--root-ca\fP=\fBFILE\fP
Specifies the root CA certificate for the verification. If omitted,
the system wide root CAs installed on the system are used. Use
this only if you trust the specified certificate. Optional.
.TP
.B
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=\fBFILE\fP
\fBFILE\fP specifies the output for the attestation request control block.
.TP
.B
\fB-a\fP, \fB--arpk\fP=\fBFILE\fP
Save the protection key as GCM-AES256 key in \fBFILE\fP Do not publish this key, otherwise your attestation is compromised.
.TP
.B
\fB--no-verify\fP
Disable the host-key document verification. Does not require the host-key documents to be valid. Do
not use for a production request unless you verified the host-key document before (optional).
.TP
.B
\fB--offline\fP
Specifies offline mode, in which no attempt is made to download CRLs. (optional).
.TP
.B
\fB-V\fP, \fB--verbose\fP
Provide more detailed output (optional).
.SH EXAMPLE
Create an attestation request with the protection key 'arp.key', write the request to 'arcb.bin', and verify the host-key document using the CA-signed key 'DigiCertCA.crt' and the intermediate key 'IbmSigningKey.crt'.
.PP
.nf
.fam C
        pvattest create -k hkd.crt --arpk arp.key -o attreq.bin --cert DigiCertCA.crt --cert IbmSigningKey.crt

.fam T
.fi
Create an attestation request with the protection key 'arp.key', write the request to 'arcb.bin', verify the host-key document using the CA-signed key 'DigiCertCA.crt' and the intermediate key 'IbmSigningKey.crt', and instead of downloading the certificate revocation list use certificate revocation lists 'DigiCertCA.crl', 'IbmSigningKey.crl', and 'rootCA.crl'.
.PP
.nf
.fam C
        pvattest create -k hkd.crt --arpk arp.key -o attreq.bin --cert DigiCertCA.crt --cert IbmSigningKey.crt --offline --crl DigiCertCA.crl --crl IbmSigningKey.crl --crl rootCA.crl


.fam T
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBpvattest\fP(1), \fBpvattest-verify\fP(1), \fBpvattest-perform\fP(1)
