.\" Copyright 2022 IBM Corp.
.\" s390-tools is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.
.\"
.TH pvattest 1 "07 June 2022" "s390-tools" "Attestation Manual"
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
\fBpvattest [OPTION?] COMMAND [OPTIONS] \fP- create, perform, and verify attestation measurements
\fB
.RE
\fB
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.fam C
\fBpvattest\fP \fIcreate\fP [\fIOPTIONS\fP]
\fBpvattest\fP \fIperform\fP [\fIOPTIONS\fP]
\fBpvattest\fP \fIverify\fP [\fIOPTIONS\fP]

.fam T
.fi
.fam T
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Use \fBpvattest\fP to attest that an IBM Secure Execution guest is the correct guest, and that it was started in a secure manner.
Run '\fBpvattest\fP \fIcreate\fP' and '\fBpvattest\fP \fIverify\fP' in a trusted environment only.
.PP
.nf
.fam C
        create    On a trusted system, creates an attestation request.

        perform   On the SE-guest to be attested, sends the attestation request to the Ultravisor and receives the answer.

        verify    On a trusted system, compares the answer from the Ultravisor to the one from your trusted environment. If they differ, the Secure Execution guest might be compromised.

.fam T
.fi
For meaningful results, run '\fIcreate\fP' and '\fIverify\fP' in a trusted environment, like your workstation or a previously attested IBM Secure Execution guest. Otherwise, the attestation might be tampered with. For all certificates, revocation lists, and host-key documents, both the PEM and DER input formats are supported. If you run \fBpvattest\fP on a machine architecture other than z/Architecture, 'measure' is not available.
.PP
Use '\fBpvattest\fP [COMMAND] \fB-h\fP' to get detailed help
.RE
.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
Show help options
.TP
.B
\fB-v\fP, \fB--version\fP
Print the version and exit.
.TP
.B
\fB-V\fP, \fB--verbose\fP
Provide more detailed output (optional)
.RE
.PP

.SH EXAMPLE
For details refer to the man page of the command.
.PP
Create the request on a trusted system.
.PP
.nf
.fam C
	trusted:~$ pvattest create -k hkd.crt --cert CA.crt --cert ibmsk.crt --arpk arp.key -o attreq.bin

.fam T
.fi
On the SE-guest, \fIperform\fP the attestation.
.PP
.nf
.fam C
	seguest:~$ pvattest perform -i attreq.bin -o attresp.bin

.fam T
.fi
On a trusted system, \fIverify\fP that the response is correct. Here, the protection key from the creation and the SE-guest’s header is used to \fIverify\fP the measurement.
.PP
.nf
.fam C
	trusted:~$ pvattest verify -i attresp.bin --arpk arp.key --hdr se_guest.hdr
	trusted:~$ echo $?
	0

.fam T
.fi

If the measurements do not match \fBpvattest\fP exits with code 2 and emits an error message. The SE-guest attestation failed.
.PP
.nf
.fam C
	trusted:~$ pvattest verify -i wrongresp.bin --arpk arp.key --hdr se_guest.hdr
	ERROR: Attestation measurement verification failed:
	       Calculated and received attestation measurement are not the same.
	trusted:~$ echo $?
	2

.fam T
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBpvattest\fP-\fIcreate\fP(1), \fBpvattest-\fIverify\fP\fP(1), \fBpvattest\fP-\fIperform\fP(1)
