.\" Copyright 2025 IBM Corp.
.\" s390-tools is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.
.\"
.ds c \fBzpwr\fP
.TH zpwr 1 "Feb 2025" "s390-tools" zpwr
.SH NAME
zpwr \- Display power readings of a partition and central processor complex
(CPC) on an IBM Z or LinuxONE server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
\fIzpwr\fR
	[\-d <NUMBER> | \-\-delay=<NUMBER>] [\-c <NUMBER> | \-\-count=<NUMBER>]
	[\-\-format=<STRING>]
	[\-s | \-\-stream]
	[\-v | \-\-version]
	[\-h | \-\-help]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
zpwr displays power readings of a partition and central processor complex
(CPC) on an IBM Z or LinuxONE server.
.sp
Partition readings include CPU, storage and I/O power readings.  It specifies
the number of units allocated to the configuration at the time the reading was
taken.
.sp
CPC readings include total, unassigned resources and infrastructure power
readings.
.sp
Power reading units are automatically presented in a human readable format,
whereas complex formats like json, csv, json-seq, pairs display the power
readings in microwatts.
.sp
CPC power readings can be retrieved only when the required authorization was
set for the LPAR.  Enable the required authorization by setting "Global
Performance Data" in LPAR's activation profile.
.sp
If the power readings cannot be retrieved, the power readings return an empty
string or null in complex formats, and the power readings are not displayed in
human readable format.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\-\-format=<STRING>
.RS 4
Retrieve power readings in the following formats: json, csv,
json-seq or pairs. If no format is specified in the command, the output will
default to the human readable format.
.sp
When the format is json, csv, json-seq or pairs, the power readings are
displayed in microwatts.
.RE
.PP
\-d, \-\-delay
.RS 4
Retrieve power readings after specified delay in seconds has elapsed.
.RE
.PP
\-c <NUMBER>, \-\-count=<NUMBER>
.RS 4
Required number of power readings.
.sp
The \-\-count option can only be used in conjunction with \-\-stream or
\-\-delay option.
.RE
.PP
\-s, \-\-stream
.RS 4
Retrieve power readings in stream mode. A new power reading will be displayed
only after an interval has elapsed since the last power reading request.
The interval is automatically calculated in stream mode.
.sp
The \-\-stream and \-\-delay options are mutually exclusive.
.RE
.PP
\-v, \-\-version
.RS 4
Print version information.
.RE
.PP
\-h, \-\-help
.RS 4
Print usage information.
.RE
.SH OUTPUT
.B Iteration
.RS 4
Iteration number of the current power readings. If the power reading is
requested before the time interval has elapsed, cached power readings might be
returned. The iteration number helps to determine if the cached power readings
are provided.
.RE
.PP
.B Time
.RS 4
The time at which power readings were taken, expressed in human readable format.
.RE
.PP
.B Time epoch
.RS 4
The time at which power readings were taken, expressed in epoch time.
.PP
.B sec
.RS 4
The number of seconds elapsed since the Unix epoch.
.RE
.PP
.B nsec
.RS 4
The number of nanoseconds elapsed since the last full seconds.
.RE
.RE
.PP
.B Update interval
.RS 4
Indicates the time interval in nanoseconds after which new power readings are
available. If the power readings is requested before the time interval has
elapsed, cached power readings might be returned.
.RE
.PP
.B CPU
.RS 4
CPU power reading of a partition.
.RE
.PP
.B Storage
.RS 4
Storage power reading of a partition.
.RE
.PP
.B I/O
.RS 4
I/O power reading of a partition.
.RE
.PP
.B Total
.RS 4
Specifies number of units for all electrical and mechanical components of the
system.
.RE
.PP
.B Unassigned Resources
.RS 4
Specifies number of units for all types of resources in the standby state or
reserved state at the time the reading was taken.
.RE
.PP
.B Infrastructure
.RS 4
Specifies number of units for all subsystems in the CPC which do not provide
CPU, storage or I/O resources to partitions.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
1. Display power readings in human readable format.
.nf
.ft CW
# zpwr
LPAR CPU:                       140.00  W
LPAR Storage:                     1.72  W
LPAR I/O:                        40.00  W

CPC Total:                       15.40 kW
CPC Unassigned Resources:         7.48 kW
CPC Infrastructure:               5.31 kW

Update interval: 10.00 s
.ft
.fi
.sp 1
2. Perform two power measurements with a delay of 10 seconds and output the
data in json format.
.nf
.ft CW
# zpwr --format json --delay 10 --count 2
{
  "meta": {
    "api_level": "1",
    "version": "2.36.0-build-20250107",
    "host": "lpar001",
    "time_epoch": "1736316898",
    "time": "2025-01-08 07:14:58+0100"
  },
  "zpwr": [
    {
      "iteration": "0",
      "time": "2025-01-08 07:14:58+0100",
      "time_epoch_sec": "1736316898",
      "time_epoch_nsec": "10935887",
      "update_interval": "10000000000",
      "lpar": [
        "cpu": "140000000",
        "storage": "1719200",
        "io": "40000000"
      ],
      "cpc": [
        "total": "15406000000",
        "unassigned_resources": "7578848100",
        "infrastructure": "5283946300"
      ]
    },
    {
      "iteration": "1",
      "time": "2025-01-08 07:15:08+0100",
      "time_epoch_sec": "1736316908",
      "time_epoch_nsec": "11113153",
      "update_interval": "10000000000",
      "lpar": [
        "cpu": "140000000",
        "storage": "1719200",
        "io": "40000000"
      ],
      "cpc": [
        "total": "15401000000",
        "unassigned_resources": "7569928400",
        "infrastructure": "5284866000"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
.ft
.fi
.sp 1
3. Display power readings in csv format and in stream mode.
.nf
.ft CW
# zpwr --format csv --stream
"iteration","time","time_epoch_sec","time_epoch_nsec","update_interval","cpu","storage","io","total","unassigned_resources","infrastructure"
"0","2025-01-08 07:17:05+0100","1736317025","592784684","10000000000","143000000","1708200","40000000","15550000000","7659162700","5337186700"
"1","2025-01-08 07:17:15+0100","1736317035","592937261","10000000000","143000000","1708200","40000000","15533000000","7650389100","5328960300"
.ft
.fi
