.\" Copyright 2020 IBM Corp.
.\" s390-tools is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.
.\"
.TH GENPROTIMG 8 "November 2020" "s390-tools"
.SH NAME
genprotimg \- Create a protected virtualization image

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY
.B genprotimg
\fB\-k\fR \fIHOST_KEY_DOCUMENT\fR...
\fB\-C\fR \fICERTIFICATE\fR...
\fB\-i\fR \fIVMLINUZ\fR
[\fB\-r\fR \fIRAMDISK\fR]
[\fB\-p\fR \fIPARMFILE\fR]
\fB\-o\fR \fIOUTFILE\fR
[\fIOPTION\fR]...
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Use \fBgenprotimg\fR to generate a single bootable image file with
encrypted and integrity-protected parts. The command requires a kernel
image, a host-key document, certificates for the host-key document
verification, and an output file name. Optionally, specify an initial
RAM filesystem, and a file containing the kernel parameters. If the
command should be run offline, use the \fB\-\-offline\fR option and
specify the certificate revocation lists (CRLs) by using the
\fB\-\-crl\fR option. Should special circumstances require it, you can
optionally specify your own keys for the encryption by using the
experimental options. For all certificates, CRLs, and host-key
documents, both the PEM and DER input formats are supported. In the
resulting image file, a plain text boot loader, the encrypted
components for kernel, initial RAM disk, kernel parameters, and the
encrypted and integrity-protected header are concatenated. The header
contains metadata necessary for running the guest in protected mode.
.PP
Use this image file as a kernel image for zipl or for a direct kernel
boot using QEMU.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Prints usage information, then exits.
.TP
\fB\-\-help-experimental\fR
Prints experimental usage information, then exits.
.TP
\fB\-\-help-all\fR
Prints all usage information, then exits.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Provides more detailed output.
.TP
\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-host-key-document\fR=\fI\,HOST_KEY_DOCUMENT\/\fR
Specifies a host-key document. At least one is required. Specify this
option multiple times to enable the image to run on more than one
host.
.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-cert\fR=\fI\,FILE\/\fR
Specifies the certificate that is used to establish a chain of trust
for the verification of the host-key documents. Specify this option
twice to specify the IBM Z signing key and the intermediate CA
certificate (signed by the root CA). Required.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR=\fI\,OUTPUT_FILE\/\fR
Specifies the output file. Required.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-image\fR=\fI\,VMLINUZ\/\fR
Specifies the Linux kernel image file. Required.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-ramdisk\fR=\fI\,RAMDISK\/\fR
Specifies the RAM disk image. Optional.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-parmfile\fR=\fI\,PARMFILE\/\fR
Specifies the kernel command line stored in \fI\,PARMFILE\/\fR. Optional.
.TP
\fB\-\-crl\fR=\fI\,FILE\/\fR
Specifies the revocation list that is used to check whether a
certificate of the chain of trust is revoked. Specify this option
multiple times to use multiple CRLs. Optional.
.TP
\fB\-\-offline\fR
Specifies offline mode, in which no attempt is made to download
CRLs. Optional.
.TP
\fB\-\-root\-ca\fR=\fI\,FILE\/\fR
Specifies the root CA certificate for the verification. If omitted,
the DigiCert root CA certificate installed on the system is used. Use
this only if you trust the specified certificate. Optional.
.TP
\fB\-\-no-verify\fR
Do not require the host-key documents to be valid. For testing
purposes, do not use for a production image. Optional.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Prints version information, then exits.

.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
Generate a protected virtualization image in
\fI\,/boot/vmlinuz.pv\/\fR, using the kernel file \fI\,vmlinuz\/\fR,
the initrd in \fI\,initramfs\/\fR, the kernel parameters contained in
\fI\,parmfile\/\fR, the intermediate CA in \fI\,DigiCertCA.crt\/\fR,
the IBM Z signing key in \fI\,ibm-z-host-key-signing.crt\/\fR, and the
host-key document in \fI\,host_key.crt\/\fR:
.PP
.Vb 1
.EX
\&        genprotimg \-i \fI\,vmlinuz\/\fR \-r \fI\,initramfs\/\fR \-p \fI\,parmfile\/\fR \-k \fI\,host_key.crt\/\fR \-C \fI\,ibm-z-host-key-signing.crt\/\fR \-C \fI\,DigiCertCA.crt \-o \fI\,/boot/vmlinuz.pv\/\fR
.EE
.Ve
.PP

.SH NOTES
.IP "1." 4
An ELF file cannot be used as a Linux kernel image.
.IP "2." 4
Remember to re-run \fBzipl\fR after updating a protected
virtualization image.

.SH SEE ALSO
\&\fBzipl\fR\|(5), \fBqemu\fR\|(1)
