.\" Copyright 2017 IBM Corp.
.\" s390-tools is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.
.\"
.\" Macro for inserting an option description prologue.
.\" .OD <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OD
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  PD 0
.  if !'\\$2'' .IP "\fB\-\\$2\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  if !'\\$1'' .IP "\fB\-\-\\$1\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  PD
..
.\" Macro for inserting code line.
.\" .CL <text>
.de CL
.  ds pfont \fP
.  nh
.  na
.  ft CR
\\$*
.  ft \\*[pfont]
.  ad
.  hy
.  br
..
.\" Macro for inserting a man page reference.
.\" .MP man-page section [suffix]
.de MP
.  nh
.  na
.  BR \\$1 (\\$2)\\$3
.  ad
.  hy
..
.
.TH chzdev 8 "Jan 2016" s390-tools chzdev
.
.SH NAME
chzdev - Configure z Systems specific devices
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "chzdev "
.I "TYPE "
.I "DEVICE "
[
.I "SELECTION "
.I "SETTINGS "
.I "ACTIONS "
.I "OPTIONS "
]
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B chzdev
is a tool for configuring devices and device drivers which are specific to the
IBM z Systems platform. Supported device types include storage devices (DASD
and zFCP) and networking devices (QETH, CTC and LCS).
.PP
.
.SS "Configurations"
You can apply configuration changes to the active configuration of the
currently running system, or to the persistent configuration stored in
configuration files:
.IP \(bu 3
Changes to the
.B "active configuration"
are effective immediately. They are lost on reboot, or when a device becomes
unavailable, or when a device driver is unloaded.
.PP
.IP \(bu 3
Changes to the
.B "persistent configuration"
are applied when the system boots, or when a device becomes available, or
when a device driver is loaded.
.PP
By default chzdev applies changes to both the active and the persistent
configuration.
.
.SS "Site-specific configurations"
In some high-availability setups, root and boot disks of a Linux installation are
copied to remote sites that can take over execution of a Linux workload in case of
an outage of the original site. A
.B site
in this context is an execution environment such as an
.B LPAR or
.B z/VM guest.
Each site may provide a different set of devices, or require different parameters to be
applied per device.

chzdev supports site-specific device configuration for up to
.B 10
sites. Each site is identified by a number in the range 0 to 9. You can provide a separate
set of persistent device configuration for each site. The IPL Load Parameter value specified
during boot determines the currently active site. Only the device configuration of the active
site is applied during boot and when new devices become available. A common configuration can
be provided that is applied when no site-specific configuration is available for a device in
the active site.

You can use the
.B --site
parameter to configure devices for a specific site only. Configuration actions without a site
parameter apply to the common configuration.

Linux supports the following IPL Load Parameter values for selecting the active site:

.B S<n>
  Site with number <n> becomes the active site. Example: "S2" specifies site 2 as active site.

.B SS
  The Subchannel-Set ID (SSID) of the IPL device specifies the number of the active site.

If no site is specified in the Load Parameter, only the common configuration is applied.

.PP
.
.SS "Tool actions"
chzdev supports multiple
.B tool actions
such as
.IP \(bu 3
Enable a device.
.PP
.IP \(bu 3
Disable a device.
.PP
.IP \(bu 3
Export and import configuration data to and from a file.
.PP
.IP \(bu 3
Display a list of available device types and attributes.
.PP
You can trigger these actions by specifying one of the command line options
listed in the ACTIONS section.
.PP
.
.
.SH TYPE
chzdev uses
.B "device type"
names to distinguish devices by their respective type.
A device type typically corresponds to a device driver, though there are cases
where multiple device types are provided for the same driver (for example both
device types "dasd-eckd" and "dasd-fba" are related to the DASD device driver).
.PP
You can use the
.B TYPE
positional argument of the chzdev tool to restrict the scope of a tool action
to the specified device type:
.IP \(bu 3
Specify a device type and optionally a device ID to only work on
devices with matching type and ID
.PP
.IP \(bu 3
Specify a device type together with option
.nh
\-\-type
.hy
to manage the configuration of the device type itself
.PP
.B Note:
Specify the full device type when configuring a device by
ID. Otherwise the same device ID might accidentally match other devices of a
different type.
.PP
To get a list of supported device types, use the
.nh
\-\-list\-types
.hy
action.
.PP
.
.
.SH DEVICE
Use the
.B DEVICE
positional argument of chzdev to select a single device or a range of devices
by device ID as target for a tool action. To select a range of devices, specify
the ID of the first and the last device in the range separated by a hyphen (-).
Separate multiple IDs or ranges with a comma (,).
.PP
.B Example:
.CL chzdev dasd 1000,2000-2010 -e
.PP
.
.
.SH SELECTION
In addition to specifying devices by their ID you can also select devices by
their state or by the Linux functions they provide.
.PP
chzdev supports the following device states:
.PP
.TP 12
.B online
The device is enabled in the active configuration and set up to provide a Linux
function such as a block device like /dev/dasda, or a networking interface like
eth0.
.PP
.TP 12
.B offline
The device is not enabled in the active configuration.
.PP
.TP 12
.B existing
The device is present in the active configuration.
.PP
.TP 12
.B configured
There is a persistent configuration for this device.
.PP
.TP 12
.B failed
The driver of a device detected errors that may cause the device to not function
properly.
.PP
.
Selection works in two stages:
.PP
.IP 1. 3
All devices specified by ID or by options
.nh
\-\-all, \-\-by\-interface, \-\-by\-node or \-\-by\-path
.hy
are considered for selection.
.PP
.IP 2. 3
Of the considered devices, only those matching the specified state options
.nh
\-\-online, \-\-offline, \-\-existing, \-\-configured and \-\-failed
.hy
are selected.
.PP
.
.
.SS "Selection options"
.OD all "" ""
Select all existing and configured devices.
.PP
.
.OD by-attrib "" "KEY" "=" "VALUE"
.OD by-attrib "" "KEY" "!=" "VALUE"

Select devices with specified attribute value.

When specified as
.IR KEY = VALUE ,
selects all devices that provide an attribute named
.I KEY
with a value of
.IR VALUE .
When specified as
.IR KEY != VALUE ,
selects all devices that
.B don't
provide an attribute named
.I KEY
with a value of
.IR VALUE .
.PP
.
.OD by-interface "" "NAME"
Select device providing network interface, e.g. eth0.

The
.I NAME
parameter must be the name of an existing networking interface.
.PP
.
.OD by-node "" "NODE"
Select device providing device node, e.g. /dev/sda.

The
.I NODE
parameter must be the path to a block device or character device special file.

.B Note:
If
.I NODE
is the device node for a logical device (such as a device mapper device),
chzdev will try to resolve the corresponding physical device nodes. The
.MP lsblk 8
tool must be available for this resolution to work.
.PP
.
.OD by-path "" "PATH"
Select device providing file system path, e.g. /usr.

The
.I PATH
parameter can be the mount point of a mounted file system, or a path
on that file system.

.B Note:
If the file system that provides
.I PATH
is stored on multiple physical devices or on a subvolume (such as supported by
btrfs) chzdev will try to resolve the corresponding physical device nodes. The
.MP lsblk 8
and
.MP findmnt 8
tools must be available and in the case of multiple physical devices the file
system must provide a valid UUID for this resolution to work.
.PP
.
.OD configured "" ""
Select all devices for which a persistent configuration exists.
.PP
.
.OD existing "" ""
Select all devices that are present in the active configuration.
.PP
.
.OD online "" ""
Select devices that are online.

An online device is a device in the active configuration that is set up
to provide its associated Linux function (such as a block device or networking
interface).
.PP
.
.OD offline "" ""
Select devices that are offline.


An offline device is a device in the active configuration that is
.B not
set up to provide its associated Linux function.
.PP
.
.OD failed "" ""
Select devices for which errors were detected.

A failed device is a device for which its driver detected an error condition
that may cause the device to not correctly perform its function. You can use
the \-\-info option of the lszdev tool to get more details on the detected
errors.

.B Example:
.CL lszdev \-\-failed \-\-info
.PP
.
.OD ipldev "" ""
Select IPL device

Select the device used for the most recent IPL operation.
.PP
.
.
.SH SETTINGS
A
.B setting
is a positional argument of chzdev in the form KEY=VALUE. It can be used to
configure a specific named attribute (KEY) of a device or device type with
the provided VALUE.
.PP
.B Example:
.CL chzdev dasd 1000 use_diag=1
.PP
You can use the
.nh
\-\-list\-attributes
.hy
option to display a list of available
attributes and
.nh
\-\-help\-attribute
.hy
to get more detailed information about
a specific attribute.
.PP
.
.
.SS "Special settings"
The following special settings affect how devices are handled by chzdev:
.PP
.
.BR zdev:early =0|1
.RS 4
Control in which stage of the boot process a device is activated:
.TP 4
.B 0
Device is activated normally during boot (default).
.PP
.TP 4
.B 1
Device is activated early in the boot process, by the initial RAM-disk.
.PP
Specify a value of 1 for this attribute in any of the following situations:
.TP 4
\(bu
To ensure that your settings override auto-configuration settings.
.PP
.TP 4
\(bu
To ensure that a device required to access the root file system is correctly
enabled during boot. An example would be a networking device, or a device that
is intended to extend a logical volume that provides the root file system.
.PP
.RE
.
.
.SH ACTIONS
You can use one of the action options listed below to specify the
.B main tool action
that chzdev should perform. Alternatively you can specify a setting
or one of \-\-remove or \-\-remove\-all to modify device and device type
settings.
.PP
.
.
.SS "Action options"
.OD apply "" ""
Apply persistent settings to active configuration.

Applies the persistent configuration of all selected devices and
device types to the active configuration.
.PP
.
.OD disable "d" ""
Disable device.

.B Active configuration:
Disables the selected devices by reverting the configuration steps necessary
to enable a device.

.B Persistent configuration:
Removes configuration files and settings associated with the
selected device.
.PP
.
.OD disable-all "D" ""
Disable device in all configurations.
.PP
.
.OD enable "e" ""
Enable device.

The enable action instructs chzdev to perform any steps necessary for the
selected devices to provide their corresponding Linux function (such as a block
device or networking interface). Examples for such steps include setting a CCW
device online, removing a CCW device from the CIO blacklist, and creating a CCW
group device.

.B Active configuration:
Performs all initial setup steps required for a device to provide its Linux
function.

.B Persistent configuration:
Creates configuration files and settings associated with the selected devices.
.PP
.
.OD export "" "FILENAME" "|-"
Export configuration data to a text file.

Writes configuration data for all selected devices and device types to
.IR FILENAME .
If a single hyphen ("-") is specified instead of an actual file name, data is
written to the standard output stream.

The output format of this action is suitable for use with the
.nh
\-\-import
.hy
action of chzdev.
.PP
.
.OD help "h" ""
Print usage information, then exit.
.PP
.
.OD help-attribute "H" ""
Show detailed help on specified attribute.

Displays detailed information about the attributes specified as positional
command line arguments. Information displayed includes a description of
the attribute function and optionally a list of accepted values and the
default value.
.PP
.
.OD import "" "FILENAME" "|-"
Import configuration data from a text or machine-provided file.

Reads configuration data from FILENAME and applies it. If a single hyphen ("-")
is specified as FILENAME data is read from the standard input stream. The
input format must be either in the format as produced by the chzdev \-\-export
action, or in the format of a machine-provided I/O configuration data file.

.B Machine-provided data:
Some machine models provide I/O configuration data which is made available
by the Linux kernel via a sysfs interface. While this data is intended for
automatic consumption during the boot phase, you can also apply it manually
using the \-\-import action like in the following example

.B Example:
.CL chzdev --import /sys/firmware/sclp_sd/config/data

.B Note:
By default all configuration data that is read is also applied. To reduce the
scope of imported configuration data, you can select specific devices, a device
type, or define whether only data for the active, persistent or
auto-configuration should be imported.
.PP
.
.OD list-attributes "l" ""
List attributes.

Lists all supported device or device type attributes, including a short
description. You can use the
.nh
\-\-help\-attribute
.hy
action to get more detailed information about an attribute.
.PP
.
.OD list-types "L" ""
List supported device types.

Lists the name and a short description for all device types supported by
chzdev.
.PP
.
.OD version "v" ""
Print version information, then exit.
.PP
.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.OD active "a" ""
Apply changes to the active configuration only.

Restricts configuration changes to the active configuration. As a result, the
persistent configuration is not changed unless
.nh
\-\-persistent
.hy
was also specified.

.B Note:
Changes to the active configuration are effective immediately. They are lost
on reboot, or when a device becomes unavailable, or when a device driver is
unloaded.
.PP
.
.OD auto-conf "" ""
Apply changes to the auto-configuration only.

This option is used internally to apply machine-provided I/O configuration data
to a Linux system.

.B Note:
There is typically no need for users to specify this option directly.
In particular, user-initiated changes to this configuration will be lost
the next time that machine-provided data is obtained (i.e. during boot).
.PP
.
.OD base "" "PATH" | "KEY" = "VALUE"
Change file system paths used to access files.

If
.I PATH
is specified without an equal sign (=), it is used as base path for accessing
files in the active and persistent configuration.

If the specified parameter is in KEY=VALUE format, only those paths
that begin with
.I KEY
are modified.
For these paths, the initial
.I KEY
portion is replaced with
.IR VALUE .

.B Example:
.CL chzdev dasd-eckd 1000 -e -p --base /etc=/mnt/etc
.PP
.
.OD dry-run "" ""
Print output without performing configuration actions.

Performs action processing and displays tool output without changing the
configuration of any devices or device types. When combined with
.nh
\-\-verbose,
.hy
details about skipped configuration steps are displayed.
.PP
.
.OD force "f" ""
Override safety checks.

Overrides safety checks and confirmation questions. These checks include:
.RS 8
.IP \(bu 3
Selection of more than 256 devices
.PP
.IP \(bu 3
Configuring unknown attributes
.PP
.IP \(bu 3
Combining apparently inconsistent settings
.PP
.RE
.
.OD is-owner "" "FILENAME"
Detect if the file mentioned is generated by zdev tools.

Return 0 if the
.IR FILENAME
is generated by zdev tools and 33 otherwise.

.B Example:
.CL chzdev --is-owner /etc/udev/rules/41-dasd-0.0.1234.rules

.PP
.
.OD no-root-update "" ""
Skip root device update.

Skips any additional steps that are required to make changes to the root
device configuration persistent. Typically such steps include rebuilding the
initial RAM disk, or modifying the kernel command line.
.PP
.
.OD no-settle "" ""
Do not wait for udev processing to complete.

Skips all calls to the udevadm tool that are intended to wait for udev to
finish processing before continuing. There is typically no need to use this
option unless chzdev is run in an environment where udev is not fully
functional (such as in the early phase of an initial RAM disk).
.PP
.
.OD no-module-load "" ""
Do not load kernel modules during chzdev execution.

In some situations \fBchzdev\fR will attempt to load kernel modules to
complete a configuration action. This behavior may be undesirable in some
scenarios. The \fB\-\-no-module-load\fR option suppresses kernel module loading
during \fBchzdev\fR execution.
.PP
.
.OD persistent "p" ""
Apply changes to persistent configuration only.

The persistent configuration is put into effect when the system boots, or
when a device becomes available, or when a device driver is loaded.
.PP
.
.OD quiet "q" ""
Print only minimal run-time information.
.PP
.
.OD remove "r" "ATTRIB"
Remove setting for attribute
.IR ATTRIB .

.B Persistent configuration:
Removes any setting for the specified attribute. As a result, the attribute will
keep its initial value when the device or device type is configured.

.B Active configuration:
For attributes that maintain a list of values written to them, clears all values
for that list.

.B Note:
Some attributes are mandatory and cannot be removed.
.PP
.
.OD remove-all "R" ""
Remove settings for all attributes.

.B Persistent configuration:
Removes all non-mandatory attribute settings. As a result, these attributes will
keep their initial value when the device or device type is configured.

.B Active configuration:
For all attributes that maintain a list of values written to them, clears all
values for that list.

.B Note:
Some attributes are mandatory and cannot be removed.
.PP
.
.OD site "s" "SITE-ID"
Apply the persistent configuration to the specified site only.

This option can be used to configure the device in such a way that, the
same configuration can be used on multiple different sites with different
device hardwares, without any modification. With the site information, we
can add different configurations which are specific to different sites. Where
each site represents different systems or different hardware devices which
are even located in different locations.
For example, having
the configuration of main-site or failover-site in the same place, but these
configurations used only on the respective sites. Currently a user can define
10 different configurations for 10 different sites with
.I SITE-ID
0 to 9.

The configuration settings is put into effect only on the system with the
site number which is mentioned in
.I SITE-ID.

This parameter is only effective only for persistent configurations and for
dasd device-types.

.B Example:
.CL chzdev -ep 0.0.f001 --site 3

.PP
.
.OD type "t" ""
Select device type as target for actions.

Selects a device type as target for a configuration or query action.
.PP
.
.OD verbose "V" ""
Print additional run-time information.
.PP
.
.OD yes "y" ""
Answer all confirmation questions with 'yes'.
.PP
.
.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.B Enable DASD 0.0.8000 and create persistent configuration:
.RS 4
.CL chzdev \-e dasd 8000
.RE
.PP
.
.B Enable zFCP LUN and create persistent configuration:
.RS 4
.CL chzdev \-e zfcp-lun 0.0.1724:0x50050763070ba5e2:0x4006404e00000000
.RE
.PP
.
.B Enable QETH device without creating a persistent configuration:
.RS 4
.CL chzdev \-e \-a qeth 0.0.a000:0.0.a001:0.0.a002
.RE
.PP
.
.B Get help on QETH device attribute:
.RS 4
.CL chzdev qeth \-\-help\-attribute layer2
.RE
.PP
.
.B Change dasd device type parameter:
.RS 4
.CL chzdev dasd \-\-type eer_pages=14
.RE
.PP
.
.B Remove persistent use_diag setting of dasd 0.0.8000:
.RS 4
.CL chzdev dasd 8000 \-\-remove use_diag --persistent
.RE
.PP
.
.B Export configuration data for all zFCP LUNs to file.
.RS 4
.CL chzdev zfcp\-lun \-\-all \-\-export config.txt
.RE
.PP
.
.B Persistently configure root device:
.RS 4
.CL chzdev \-\-by\-path / \-\-persistent \-\-enable
.RE
.PP
.
.B Disable device that provides networking interface eth0:
.RS 4
.CL chzdev \-\-by\-interface eth0 \-\-active \-\-disable
.RE
.PP
.
If you intend to assign a cryptographic (AP) adapter or domain to a KVM
guest you must first release its usage by the zcrypt driver in the host
operating system using chzdev commands similar to the following examples:
.
.PP
.B Remove AP adapters 1 and 20 through 22 from host usage:
.RS 4
.CL chzdev \-\-type ap apmask=-1,-20-22
.RE
.PP
.
.B Return AP domains 5 and 8 through 10 to host usage:
.RS 4
.CL chzdev \-\-type ap aqmask=+5,+8-10
.RE
.PP
.
.B Specify the list of AP adapters and domains available for host usage:
.RS 4
.CL chzdev \-\-type ap apmask=0-120,129-255 aqmask=0-200,220-255
.RE
.PP
.
.
.SH "EXIT CODES"
.TP
.B 0
Program finished successfully
.PP
.TP
.B 1
Usage error
.PP
.TP
.B 2
Unknown device type specified
.PP
.TP
.B 3
Device not found
.PP
.TP
.B 4
Unknown attribute specified
.PP
.TP
.B 5
Invalid device type specified
.PP
.TP
.B 6
Invalid attribute value specified
.PP
.TP
.B 7
Setting not found
.PP
.TP
.B 8
Empty selection
.PP
.TP
.B 9
Invalid configuration
.PP
.TP
.B 10
Invalid device ID specified
.PP
.TP
.B 11
Incomplete device ID specified
.PP
.TP
.B 12
Configuration data not found
.PP
.TP
.B 13
Unknown column specified
.PP
.TP
.B 14
None or incomplete type specified
.PP
.TP
.B 15
A run-time error occurred
.PP
.TP
.B 16
Operation aborted on user request
.PP
.TP
.B 17
Error while applying setting
.PP
.TP
.B 18
File format error
.PP
.TP
.B 19
Kernel module is in use
.PP
.TP
.B 20
Kernel module could not be unloaded
.PP
.TP
.B 21
Kernel module could not be loaded
.PP
.TP
.B 22
Not enough available memory
.PP
.TP
.B 23
FCP device not found
.PP
.TP
.B 24
Invalid WWPN specified
.PP
.TP
.B 25
WWPN not found
.PP
.TP
.B 26
Invalid LUN specified
.PP
.TP
.B 27
SCSI device not found
.PP
.TP
.B 28
CCW group device: CCW device not found
.PP
.TP
.B 29
CCW group device: CCW devices are not a valid group
.PP
.TP
.B 30
CCW group device: CCW device already grouped
.PP
.TP
.B 31
CCW group device: Grouping failed
.PP
.TP
.B 32
CCW group device: Ungrouping failed
.PP
.TP
.B 33
The file specified by
.nh
\-\-is-owner
.hy
is not generated by zdev
.PP
.TP
.B 99
An internal error occurred
.PP
.
.
.SH FILES
.TP
/etc/udev/rules.d/
chzdev creates udev rules to store the persistent configuration of devices
in this directory. File names start with "41-".
.TP
/etc/modprobe.d/
chzdev creates modprobe configuration files to store the persistent
configuration of certain device types in this directory. File names start
with "s390x-".
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.MP lszdev 8 ,
.MP lscss 8 ,
.MP lsdasd 8 ,
.MP lszfcp 8 ,
.MP lsqeth 8 ,
.MP lsblk 8 .
