.\" Copyright 2017 IBM Corp.
.\" s390-tools is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.
.\"
.\" Macro for inserting an option description prologue.
.\" .OD <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OD
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  PD 0
.  if !'\\$2'' .IP "\fB\-\\$2\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  if !'\\$1'' .IP "\fB\-\-\\$1\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  PD
..
.\" Macro for inserting code line.
.\" .CL <text>
.de CL
.  ds pfont \fP
.  nh
.  na
.  ft CW
\\$*
.  ft \\*[pfont]
.  ad
.  hy
.  br
..
.\" Macro for inserting a man page reference.
.\" .MP man-page section [suffix]
.de MP
.  nh
.  na
.  BR \\$1 (\\$2)\\$3
.  ad
.  hy
..
.
.TH lszdev 8 "Jan 2016" s390-tools lszdev
.
.SH NAME
lszdev - Display configuration of z Systems specific devices
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "lszdev "
[
.I "TYPE "
.I "DEVICE "
.I "SELECTION "
.I "ACTIONS "
.I "OPTIONS "
]
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lszdev
displays the configuration of devices and device drivers that
are specific to IBM z Systems. Supported device types include
storage devices (DASD and zFCP) and networking devices (QETH, CTC and LCS).
.PP
.
.PP
lszdev can produce output in either list format or detailed format.
With no further options specified, the output format defaults to list format.
.
.
.SS "Configurations"
There are three sources for configuration information: the active configuration
of the currently running system, the persistent configuration stored in
configuration files, and the auto-configuration that is provided by some
machine types to automatically enable I/O devices.
.PP
Persistent configuration data is of two different types. Site-specific configuration
and common-configuration. Common configuration refers to the persistent configuration
which is not bound to any site. In many use cases, this configuration is being
used as a fallback configuration.
Refer the
.B site
section below to learn more about site-specific configuration.
.PP
By default lszdev displays information from both the active and the persistent
configuration, and, if available, from the auto-configuration.
.PP
.SS Output Format
In list format, lszdev uses values with the following meaning for the persistent columns (PERS):

.B yes
.CL A persistent, non-site specific configuration exists; No site specific configurations available.

.B no
.CL No persistent configurations is available.

.B auto
.CL Machine-provided auto-configuration is available.

.B s<n>
.CL A site-specific configuration is available for site-id n.

.B s+
.CL Site specific configurations are available for multiple sites.

.B Example

.CL TYPE			ID						ON	PERS	NAMES
.CL dasd-eckd		0.0.f001					no   	s+    	dasda
.CL dasd-eckd		0.0.f002					no   	s4    	dasdb
.CL dasd-eckd		0.0.f003				no	no
.CL qeth			0.0.1200:0.0.1201:0.0.1202	no   	yes	encbdf0

.
.
.SH TYPE
lszdev uses
.B "device type"
names to distinguish devices by their respective type.
A device type typically corresponds to a device driver, though there are cases
where multiple device types are provided for the same driver (for example both
device types "dasd-eckd" and "dasd-fba" are related to the DASD device driver).
.PP
You can use the
.B TYPE
positional argument to restrict output to the specified device type:
.IP \(bu 3
Specify a device type and optionally a device ID to only display data for
devices with matching type and ID
.PP
.IP \(bu 3
Specify a device type together with the
.nh
\-\-type
.hy
option to display the configuration of the device type itself
.PP
To get a list of supported device types, use the
.nh
\-\-list\-types
.hy
action.
.PP
.
.
.SH DEVICE
You can use the
.B DEVICE
positional argument to select a single device or a range of devices by device
ID. To select a range of devices, specify
the ID of the first and the last device in the range separated by a hyphen (-).
Multiple IDs or ranges can be specified by separating ID specifications with a
comma (,).
.PP
.B Example:
.CL lszdev dasd 1000,2000-2010
.PP
.
.

.SH SELECTION
In addition to specifying devices by their ID, you can also select devices by
their state or by the Linux functions they provide.
.PP
lszdev supports the following device states:
.PP
.TP 12
.B online
The device is enabled and set up to provide a Linux function such as a
block device like /dev/dasda, or a networking interface like eth0.
.PP
.TP 12
.B offline
The device is not enabled.
.PP
.TP 12
.B existing
The device is present in the active configuration.
.PP
.TP 12
.B configured
There is a persistent configuration for this device.
.PP
.TP 12
.B failed
The driver of a device detected errors that may cause the device to not function
properly.
.PP
.
Selection works in two stages:
.PP
.IP 1. 3
All devices specified by ID or by options
.nh
\-\-all, \-\-by\-interface, \-\-by\-node or \-\-by\-path
.hy
are considered for selection.
.PP
.IP 2. 3
Of the considered devices, only those matching the specified state options
.nh
\-\-online, \-\-offline, \-\-existing, \-\-configured and \-\-failed
.hy
are selected.
.PP
.
.
.SS "Selection options"
.OD all "" ""
Select all existing and configured devices.

This is the default when no other options are specified.
.PP
.
.OD by-attrib "" "KEY" "=" "VALUE"
.OD by-attrib "" "KEY" "!=" "VALUE"

Select devices with specified attribute value.

When specified as
.IR KEY = VALUE ,
selects all devices that provide an attribute named
.I KEY
with a value of
.IR VALUE .
When specified as
.IR KEY != VALUE ,
selects all devices that
.B don't
provide an attribute named
.I KEY
with a value of
.IR VALUE .
.PP
.
.OD by-interface "" "NAME"
Select device providing network interface, e.g. eth0.

The
.I NAME
parameter must be the name of an existing networking interface.
.PP
.
.OD by-node "" "NODE"
Select device providing device node, e.g. /dev/sda.

The
.I NODE
parameter must be the path to a block device or character device special file.

.B Note:
If
.I NODE
is the device node for a logical device (such as a device mapper device),
lszdev will try to resolve the corresponding physical device nodes. The
.MP lsblk 8
tool must be available for this resolution to work.
.PP
.
.OD by-path "" "PATH"
Select device providing file system path, e.g. /usr.

The
.I PATH
parameter can be the mount point of a mounted file system, or a path
on that file system.

.B Note:
If the file system that provides
.I PATH
is stored on multiple physical devices or on a subvolume (such as supported by
btrfs) lszdev will try to resolve the corresponding physical device nodes. The
.MP lsblk 8
and
.MP findmnt 8
tools must be available and in the case of multiple physical devices the file
system must provide a valid UUID for this resolution to work.
.PP
.
.OD configured "" ""
Select all devices for which a persistent configuration exists.
.PP
.
.OD existing "" ""
Select all devices that are present in the active configuration.
.PP
.
.OD online "" ""
Select devices that are online.

An online device is a device in the active configuration that is set up
to provide its associated Linux function (such as a block device or networking
interface).
.PP
.
.OD offline "" ""
Select devices that are offline.


An offline device is a device in the active configuration that is
.B not
set up to provide its associated Linux function.
.PP
.
.OD failed "" ""
Select devices for which errors were detected.

A failed device is a device for which its driver detected an error condition
that may cause the device to not correctly perform its function. You can use
the \-\-info option of the lszdev tool to get more details on the detected
errors.

.B Example:
.CL lszdev \-\-failed \-\-info
.PP

.
.
.SH ACTIONS
.OD help "h" ""
Print usage information, then exit.
.PP
.
.OD info "i" ""
Display detailed information.

Displays detailed information about the configuration of the selected device
or device type. Specifying \-\-info twice will display additional device
information.

.PP
.
.OD list-columns "l" ""
List available output columns.

Lists all available columns for use with option \-\-columns.
.PP
.
.OD list-types "L" ""
List supported device types.

Lists the name and a short description for all device types supported by
lszdev.
.PP
.
.OD version "v" ""
Print version information, then exit.
.PP
.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.OD active "a" ""
List information from the active configuration only.

Restricts output to information obtained from the active configuration, that
is information from the running system.
.PP
.
.OD auto-conf "" ""
List information from the auto-configuration only.

Restricts output to information obtained from the auto-configuration.
The auto-configuration is the collection of configuration data obtained
automatically on some machine models during boot.

.B Note:
This data is refreshed during each boot. Also configuration directives in
the auto-configuration only take effect if there is no directive for the
same device in the persistent configuration.
.PP
.
.OD base "" "PATH" | "KEY" = "VALUE"
Change file system paths used to access files.

If
.I PATH
is specified without an equal sign (=), it is used as base path for accessing
files in the active and persistent configuration.

If the specified parameter is in KEY=VALUE format, only those paths
that begin with
.I KEY
are modified.
For these paths, the initial
.I KEY
portion is replaced with
.IR VALUE .

.B Example:
.CL lszdev --persistent --base /etc=/mnt/etc
.PP
.
.OD columns "c" "COLUMNS"
Specify comma-separated list of columns to display.

You can change the columns shown in list output format by specifying column
names as comma-separated list via the \-\-columns option. Note that \-\-columns
cannot be specified together with \-\-info.

.B Example:
.CL lszdev \-\-columns TYPE,ID

To get a list of supported column names, use the
.nh
\-\-list\-columns
.hy
action.
.PP
.
.OD no-headings "n" ""
Do not print column headings.

When displaying output in list format, this option can be specified to
suppress the output of a heading row.
.PP
.
.OD pairs "" ""
Produce output in KEY="VALUE" format.

You can use this option to generate output in a format more suitable for
processing by other programs. In this format, column values are prefixed
with the name of the corresponding column. Values are enclosed in double
quotation marks. Any quotation marks or slashes in the value string are
escaped by placing a slash in front of it.
.PP

.OD shell "" ""
Produces KEY="VALUE" format usable as shell variables.

You can use this option together with the --pairs option to generate
output that is suitable to be sourced in a shell environment. This
option generates similar output as it would be provided by the --pairs
option but it would take care of replacing any character of a column
name that would not be appropriate to be used as part of a shell
variable name by an underscore.
.PP
.
.OD persistent "p" ""
List information from the persistent configuration only.

Restricts output to information obtained from configuration files.
.OD quiet "q" ""
Print only minimal run-time information.
.PP
.
.OD site "s" "SITE-ID"
List the persistent configuration from the specified site only.

The resulted persistent configuration details are filtered based on the
.ID SITE-ID
value. The site specific information can be found in a basic lszdev output.
For example, the PERS column may show "s+" which indicates that the device
has multiple configurations for multiple sites, and "sn" where 'n' is an
number between 0 to 9, which indicates that the persistent configuration
for the device is available only for site 'n'.

.B Example:

.CL lszdev --site 3
.CL lszdev -i --site 2
.CL lszdev f001 --site 9

.PP
.
.PP
.
.OD type "t" ""
List information about device type.

Use this option to display configuration information of a device type instead
of a device.
.PP
.
.OD verbose "V" ""
Print additional run-time information.
.PP
.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.B Display a list of all devices:
.RS 4
.CL lszdev
.RE
.PP
.
.B Return type and ID of root device in machine-readable format:
.RS 4
.CL lszdev \-\-columns TYPE,ID \-\-by\-path /
.RE
.PP
.
.B Display DASD driver settings:
.RS 4
.CL lszdev \-\-type dasd
.RE
.PP
.
.B Display cryptographic (AP) adapter and domain assignments:
.RS 4
.CL lszdev \-\-type ap
.RE
.PP
.
.SH "EXIT CODES"
lszdev returns a subset of the exit codes returned by the chzdev tool. See
.MP chzdev 8
for the detailed list.
.
.
.SH FILES
.TP
/etc/udev/rules.d/
lszdev reads udev rules representing the persistent configuration of devices
from this directory. File names start with "41-".
.TP
/etc/modprobe.d/
chzdev reads modprobe configuration files representing the persistent
configuration of certain device types from this directory. File names start
with "s390x-".
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.MP chzdev 8 ,
.MP lsdasd 8 ,
.MP lszfcp 8 ,
.MP lsqeth 8 ,
.MP lsblk 8 .
