.\" Copyright 2017 IBM Corp.
.\" s390-tools is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.
.\"
.\" Macro for inserting an option description prologue.
.\" .OD <long> [<short>] [args]
.de OD
.  ds args "
.  if !'\\$3'' .as args \fI\\$3\fP
.  if !'\\$4'' .as args \\$4
.  if !'\\$5'' .as args \fI\\$5\fP
.  if !'\\$6'' .as args \\$6
.  if !'\\$7'' .as args \fI\\$7\fP
.  PD 0
.  if !'\\$2'' .IP "\fB\-\\$2\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  if !'\\$1'' .IP "\fB\-\-\\$1\fP \\*[args]" 4
.  PD
..
.\" Macro for inserting code line.
.\" .CL <text>
.de CL
.  ds pfont \\n[.f]
.  nh
.  na
.  ft CW
\\$*
.  ft \\*[pfont]
.  ad
.  hy
.  br
..
.\" Macro for inserting a man page reference.
.\" .MP man-page section [suffix]
.de MP
.  nh
.  na
.  BR \\$1 (\\$2)\\$3
.  ad
.  hy
..
.
.TH "dump2tar" "1" "2016\-09\-02" "" ""
.
.SH "NAME"
dump2tar - Gather file contents and command output into a tar archive
.
.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B "dump2tar "
.RI "[" "OPTIONS" "] " "SPECS"
.
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B dump2tar
creates a tar archive from the contents of any files, including files of
unknown size.

Examples for files of unknown size are:
.IP \(bu 3
Named pipes (FIFOs)
.PP
.IP \(bu 3
Particular Linux kernel debugfs or sysfs files
.PP
.IP \(bu 3
Character or block devices
.PP

When adding such a file,
.B dump2tar
first reads all available data until an end-of-file indication is found. From
this data, it then creates a regular file entry in the resulting tar archive.
By default, symbolic links and directories are preserved in the archive in
their original form.

.B dump2tar
can also:
.IP \(bu 3
Add files under a different name
.PP
.IP \(bu 3
Run arbitrary commands and add the resulting command output as a
regular file
.PP
.
.
.SH "FILE SPECIFICATIONS"
.
This section describes the format of the
.I SPECS
argument mentioned in the command synopsis.
Use the following command line syntax to identify data sources and
to specify file names within the archive:
.PP

.TP
.I "PATH"
Adds the contents of the file system subtree at file system location
.I PATH
(with possible exceptions described by options) in the archive under the same
file name as on the file system.
.PP
.
.
.TP
.IR "FILENAME" ":=" "PATH"
Adds the contents of the file at file system location
.I PATH
in the archive under the name specified by
.IR FILENAME .
.PP
.
.
.TP
.IR "FILENAME" "|=" "CMDLINE"
Runs the command
.IR CMDLINE
and captures both the resulting standard output and standard error streams.
Adds the collected output as a regular file named
.I FILENAME
in the resulting archive. You can also include the resulting program exit code
by using option \-\-add\-cmd\-status.
.PP
.
You can also specify "\-\-". All specifications that follow are interpreted as
simple file names. This is useful for archiving files that contain ":=" or "|=".
.PP
.
.
.SH "OUTPUT OPTIONS"
.
.OD "output\-file" "o" "TARFILE"
Writes the resulting tar archive to
.IR TARFILE .
An existing file at the specified file system location is overwritten.

If this option is omitted or if "\-" is specified for
.IR TARFILE ,
the archive is written to the standard output stream.
.PP
.
.
.OD "gzip" "z" ""
Compresses the resulting tar archive using gzip.
.PP
.
.
.OD "max\-size" "m" "VALUE"
Sets an upper size limit, in bytes, for the resulting archive. If this limit
is exceeded after adding a file, no further files are added.
.PP
.
.
.OD "timeout" "t" "VALUE"
Sets an upper time limit, in seconds, for the archiving process. If this limit
is exceeded while adding a file, that file is truncated and no
further files are added.
.PP
.
.
.OD "no-eof" "" ""
Does not write an end-of-file marker.

Use this option if you want to create an archive that can be extended by
appending additional tar archive data.

Note: Do not use this option for the final data to be added.
A valid tar archive requires a trailing end-of-file marker.
.PP
.
.
.OD "append" "" ""
Appends data to the end of the archive.

Use this option to incrementally build a tar file by repeatedly calling
.BR dump2tar .
You must specify the \-\-no\-eof option for each but the final call of
.BR dump2tar .
.PP
.
.
.OD "add-cmd-status" "" ""
Adds a separate file named
.RI \(dq FILENAME .cmdstatus\(dq
for each command output added through the
.RI \(dq FILENAME |= CMDLINE \(dq
notation (see FILE SPECIFICATIONS).
This file contains information about the exit status of the
process that executed the command:
.
.RS 8
.TP
.RI EXITSTATUS= VALUE
Unless
.I VALUE
is -1, the process ended normally with the specified exit value.
.PP
.
.TP
.RI TERMSIG= VALUE
Unless
.I VALUE
is -1, the process was stopped by a signal of the specified number.
.PP
.
.TP
.RI WAITPID_ERRNO= VALUE
Unless
.I VALUE
is -1, an attempt to obtain the status of the process failed with the
specified error.
.PP
.RE
.
.
.
.SH "INPUT OPTIONS"
.
.OD "files\-from" "F" "FILENAME"
Reads input data specifications (see FILE SPECIFICATIONS) from
.IR FILENAME ,
one specification per line. Each line contains either a file name or a
.IR FILENAME := PATH
or
.IR FILENAME |= CMDLINE
specification. Empty lines are ignored.

A line can also consist of only "\-\-". All lines following this specification
are interpreted as simple file names. This is useful for archiving files that
contain ":=" or "|=".
.PP
.
.
.OD "ignore\-failed\-read" "i" ""
Continues after read errors.

By default,
.B dump2tar
stops processing after encountering errors while reading an input file.
With this option,
.B dump2tar
prints a warning message and adds an empty entry for the erroneous file in
the archive.
.PP
.
.
.OD "buffer\-size" "b" "VALUE"
Reads data from input files in chunks of
.I VALUE
bytes. Large values can accelerate the archiving process for large files
at the cost of increased memory usage. The default value is 1048576.
.PP
.
.
.OD "file\-timeout" "T" "VALUE"
Sets an upper time limit, in seconds, for reading an input file.

.B dump2tar
stops processing a file when the time limit is exceeded. Archive entries for
such files are truncated to the amount of data that is collected by the time
the limit is reached.
.PP
.
.
.OD "file\-max\-size" "M" "N"
Sets an upper size limit, in bytes, for an input file.

.B dump2tar
stops processing a file when the size limit is exceeded. Archive entries for
such files are truncated to the specified size.
.PP
.
.
.OD "jobs" "j" "N"
By default,
.B dump2tar
processes one file at a time. With this option,
.B dump2tar
processes
.I N
files in parallel.

Parallel processing can accelerate the archiving process,
especially if input files are located on slow devices, or when output from
multiple commands is added to the archive.

Note: Use
.B tar
option \-\-delay\-directory\-restore when extracting files from an archive
created with \-\-jobs to prevent conflicts with directory permissions and
modification times.
.PP
.
.
.OD "jobs\-per\-cpu" "J" "N"
Processes
.I N
files for each online CPU in parallel.

Parallel processing can accelerate the
archiving process, especially if input files are located on slow devices, or
when output from multiple commands is added to the archive.

Note: Use
.B tar
option \-\-delay\-directory\-restore when extracting files from an archive
created with \-\-jobs\-per\-cpu to prevent conflicts with directory permissions
and modification times.
.PP
.
.
.OD "exclude" "x" "PATTERN"
Does not add files to the archive if their file names match
.IR PATTERN .
.I PATTERN
is an expression that uses the shell wildcards.
.PP
.
.
.OD "exclude\-from" "X" "FILENAME"
Does not add files to the archive if their names match at least one of the
patterns listed in the pattern file with name
.IR FILENAME .
In the pattern file, each line specifies an expression that uses the
shell wildcards.
.PP
.
.
.OD "exclude\-type" "" "TYPE"
Does not add files to the archive if they match at least one of the file types
specified with
.IR TYPE .
.I TYPE
uses one or more of the characters "fdcbpls", where:

.RS 8
.IP f 3
regular files
.PP
.IP d 3
directories
.PP
.IP c 3
character devices
.PP
.IP b 3
block devices
.PP
.IP p 3
named pipes (FIFOs)
.PP
.IP l 3
symbolic links
.PP
.IP s 3
sockets
.PP
.RE
.
.PP
.
.
.OD "dereference" "" ""
Adds the content of link targets instead of symbolic links.
.PP
.
.
.OD "no\-recursion" "" ""
Does not add files from sub\-directories.

By default,
.B dump2tar
adds archive entries for specified directories, and for the files within these
directories. With this option, a specified directory results in a single entry
for the directory. Any contained files to be included must be specified
explicitly.
.PP
.
.
.SH "MISC OPTIONS"
.
.OD "help" "h" ""
Prints an overview of available options, then exits.
.PP
.
.
.OD "verbose" "V" ""
Prints additional informational output.
.PP
.
.
.OD "quiet" "q" ""
Suppresses printing of informational output.
.PP
.
.
.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.
.\fB
.CL # dump2tar a b \-o archive.tar
.\fR

.RS 4
Creates a tar archive named archive.tar containing files a and b.
.RE
.PP
.
.\fB
.CL # dump2tar /proc \-o procdump.tar.gz \-z \-i \-T 1 \-M 1048576
.\fR

.RS 4
Creates a gzip compressed tar archive named procdump.tar.gz that contains
all procfs files. Unreadable files are ignored. Files are truncated when the
first of the two limiting conditions is reached, either 1048576 bytes of
content or the reading time of 1 second.
.RE
.PP
.
.\fB
.CL # dump2tar '|=dmesg' '|=lspci' \-o data.tar
.\fR

.RS 4
Creates a tar archive named data.tar containing the output of the 'dmesg'
and 'lspci' commands.
.RE
.PP
.
.\fB
.CL # dump2tar /sys/kernel/debug/ -x '*/tracing/*' -o debug.tar -i
.\fR

.RS 4
Creates a tar archive named debug.tar containing the contents of directory
/sys/kernel/debug/ while excluding any file that is located in a sub-directory
named 'tracing'.
.RE
.PP
.
.
.SH "EXIT CODES"
.TP
.B 0
The program finished successfully
.TP
.B 1
A run-time error occurred
.TP
.B 2
The specified command was not valid
.PP
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.MP dump2tar 1 ,
.MP tar 1
