.\" Copyright 2024 IBM Corp.
.\" s390-tools is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.
.\"

.TH "PVIMG" "1" "2024-12-19" "s390-tools" "Pvimg Manual"
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
pvimg \- Create and inspect IBM Secure Execution images
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.fam C
pvimg [OPTIONS] <COMMAND>
.fam C
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Use \fBpvimg\fP to create an IBM Secure Execution image, which can be loaded
using zipl or QEMU. \fBpvimg\fP can also be used to inspect existing Secure
Execution images.
.SH "PVIMG COMMANDS"
.PP

\fBpvimg-create(1)\fR
.RS 4
Create an IBM Secure Execution image
.RE

.PP

\fBpvimg-info(1)\fR
.RS 4
Print information about the IBM Secure Execution image
.RE

.PP

\fBpvimg-test(1)\fR
.RS 4
Test different aspects of an existing IBM Secure Execution image
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\-v, \-\-verbose
.RS 4
Provide more detailed output.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-q, \-\-quiet
.RS 4
Provide less output.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-version
.RS 4
Print version information and exit.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-h, \-\-help
.RS 4
Print help (see a summary with \fB\-h\fR).
.RE
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP 8
.B 0 \- Program finished successfully
The command was executed successfully.
.RE
.TP 8
.B 1 \- Generic error
Something went wrong during the operation. Refer to the error
message.
.RE
.TP 8
.B 2 \- Usage error
The command was used incorrectly, for example: unsupported command
line flag, or wrong number of arguments.
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
\fBpvimg-create\fR(1) \fBpvimg-info\fR(1) \fBpvimg-test\fR(1) \fBzipl\fR(8) \fBqemu\fR(1)
