.\" Copyright 2024, 2025 IBM Corp.
.\" s390-tools is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.
.\"

.TH "PVIMG-INFO" "1" "2026-02-13" "s390-tools" "Pvimg Manual"
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
pvimg-info \- Print information about the IBM Secure Execution image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.fam C
pvimg info [OPTIONS] <INPUT|\-\-print\-schema <FORMAT>>
.fam C
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Note that the API and output format is experimental and subject to change.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
<INPUT>
.RS 4
Use INPUT as the Secure Execution image.
.RE
.RE

.PP
\-\-format <FORMAT>
.RS 4
Output format for the Secure Execution image information. If not specified, the
format is automatically determined based on whether stdout is connected to a
terminal.

Possible values:
.RS 4
\- \fBtext\fP: Human-readable, unstable text format (default if a terminal is available).

\- \fBtext:full\fP: Human-readable, full detail text format.

\- \fBjson\fP: Pretty-printed machine-readable JSON (default if no terminal available).

\- \fBjson:pretty\fP: Pretty-printed machine-readable JSON.

\- \fBjson:minify\fP: Minified machine-readable JSON.

.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-hdr\-key <FILE>
.RS 4
Use the key in FILE to verify the Secure Execution header and optionally
use \fB\-\-show\-secrets\fR to decrypt it. The key must be the same key that was
specified with \fB\-\-hdr\-key\fR when the
Secure Execution image was created. The key is used to:
 1. Verify the integrity and authenticity of the header
 2. Optionally decrypt secrets with \fB\-\-show\-secrets\fR

Without this option, the information is displayed, but NOT verified, and
a warning is printed. The displayed data should not be trusted without
verification.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-show\-secrets
.RS 4
This option reveals sensitive information that is normally encrypted in
the header, such as:
 \- Customer communication key (CCK)


 \- Image encryption key


 \- Other confidential data

SECURITY WARNING: Only use this option in secure, trusted environments.
The decrypted secrets should never be exposed in untrusted systems.

This option requires \fB\-\-hdr\-key\fR to decrypt the header.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-print\-schema <FORMAT>
.RS 4
Print the schema for the \fBinfo\fR subcommand and exit. This outputs the schema
that describes the structure of the given output FORMAT
produced by the \fBinfo\fR subcommand. The schema can be used for:


 \- Validating output


 \- Building tools that parse the output

Possible values:
.RS 4
\- \fBtext\fP: Human-readable, unstable text format.

\- \fBjson\fP: JSON format.

.RE
.RE
.PP
\-h, \-\-help
.RS 4
Print help (see a summary with \fB\-h\fR).
.RE
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP 8
.B 0 \- Program finished successfully
The command was executed successfully.
.RE
.TP 8
.B 1 \- Generic error
Something went wrong during the operation. Refer to the error
message.
.RE
.TP 8
.B 2 \- Usage error
The command was used incorrectly, for example: unsupported command
line flag, or wrong number of arguments.
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
\fBpvimg\fR(1) \fBzipl\fR(8) \fBqemu\fR(1)
