.\" Copyright 2024 IBM Corp.
.\" s390-tools is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.
.\"

.TH pvimg-create 1 "2024-12-17" "s390-tools" "Pvimg Manual"
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
\fBpvimg create\fP \- Create an IBM Secure Execution image
\fB
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.fam C
pvimg create [OPTIONS] --kernel <FILE> --output <FILE> --host-key-document <FILE> <--no-verify|--cert <FILE>>
.fam C
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Use \fBpvimg\fR to generate a single bootable image file with encrypted and
integrity-protected parts. The command requires a kernel image, a host-key
document, certificates for the host-key document verification, and an output
file name. Optionally, specify an initial RAM filesystem, and a file containing
the kernel parameters. If the command should be run offline, use the
\fB\-\-offline\fR option and specify the certificate revocation lists (CRLs) by
using the \fB\-\-crl\fR option. Should special circumstances require it, you can
optionally specify your own keys for the encryption by using the experimental
options. For all certificates, CRLs, and host-key documents, both the PEM and
DER input formats are supported. In the resulting image file, a plain text boot
loader, the encrypted components for kernel, initial RAM disk, kernel
parameters, and the encrypted and integrity-protected header are concatenated.
The header contains metadata necessary for running the guest in protected mode.
.PP
Use this image file as a kernel image for zipl or for a direct kernel boot using
QEMU.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\-i, \-\-kernel, \-\-image <FILE>
.RS 4
Use the content of FILE as a raw binary Linux kernel. The Linux kernel must be a
raw binary s390x Linux kernel. The ELF format is not supported.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-r, \-\-ramdisk <FILE>
.RS 4
Use the content of FILE as the Linux initial RAM disk.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-p, \-\-parmfile <FILE>
.RS 4
Use the content of FILE as the Linux kernel command line. The Linux kernel
command line must be shorter than the maximum kernel command line size supported
by the given Linux kernel.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-o, \-\-output <FILE>
.RS 4
Write the generated Secure Execution boot image to FILE.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-k, \-\-host\-key\-document <FILE>
.RS 4
Use FILE as a host\-key document. Can be specified multiple times and must be
specified at least once.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-no\-verify
.RS 4
Disable the host\-key document verification. Does not require the host\-key
documents to be valid. Do not use for a production request unless you verified
the host\-key document beforehand.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-C, \-\-cert <FILE>
.RS 4
Use FILE as a certificate to verify the host\-key or keys. The certificates are
used to establish a chain of trust for the verification of the host\-key
documents. Specify this option twice to specify the IBM Z signing key and the
intermediate CA certificate (signed by the root CA).
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-crl <FILE>
.RS 4
Use FILE as a certificate revocation list (CRL). The list is used to check
whether a certificate of the chain of trust is revoked. Specify this option
multiple times to use multiple CRLs.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-offline
.RS 4
Make no attempt to download CRLs.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-root\-ca <ROOT_CA>
.RS 4
Use FILE as the root\-CA certificate for the verification. If omitted, the
system wide\-root CAs installed on the system are used. Use this only if you
trust the specified certificate.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-no\-component\-check
.RS 4
Disable all input component checks. For example, for the Linux kernel, it tests
if the given kernel looks like a raw binary s390x kernel.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-overwrite
.RS 4
Overwrite an existing Secure Execution boot image.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-cck, \-\-comm\-key <FILE>
.RS 4
Use the content of FILE as the customer\-communication key (CCK). The file must
contain exactly 32 bytes of data.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-hdr\-key <FILE>
.RS 4
Use the content of FILE as the Secure Execution header protection key. The file
must contain exactly 32 bytes of data. If the option is not specified, the
Secure Execution header protection key is a randomly generated key.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-enable\-dump
.RS 4
Enable Secure Execution guest dump support. This option requires the
\fB\-\-cck\fR option.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-disable\-dump
.RS 4
Disable Secure Execution guest dump support (default).
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-enable\-cck\-extension\-secret
.RS 4
Add\-secret requests must provide an extension secret that matches the
CCK\-derived extension secret. This option requires the \fB\-\-cck\fR option.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-disable\-cck\-extension\-secret
.RS 4
Add\-secret requests don't have to provide the CCK\-derived extension secret
(default).
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-enable\-pckmo
.RS 4
Enable the support for the DEA, TDEA, AES, and ECC PCKMO key encryption
functions (default).
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-disable\-pckmo
.RS 4
Disable the support for the DEA, TDEA, AES, and ECC PCKMO key encryption
functions.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-enable\-pckmo\-hmac
.RS 4
Enable the support for the HMAC PCKMO key encryption function.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-disable\-pckmo\-hmac
.RS 4
Disable the support for the HMAC PCKMO key encryption function (default).
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-enable\-backup\-keys
.RS 4
Enable the support for backup target keys.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-disable\-backup\-keys
.RS 4
Disable the support for backup target keys (default).
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-enable\-image\-encryption
.RS 4
Enable encryption of the image components (default). The image components are:
the kernel, ramdisk, and kernel command line.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-\-disable\-image\-encryption
.RS 4
Disable encryption of the image components. The image components are: the
kernel, ramdisk, and kernel command line. Use only if the components used do not
contain any confidential content (for example, secrets like non\-public
cryptographic keys).
.RE
.RE
.PP
\-h, \-\-help
.RS 4
Print help (see a summary with \fB\-h\fR).
.RE
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP 8
.B 0 \- Program finished successfully
The command was executed successfully.
.RE
.TP 8
.B 1 \- Generic error
Something went wrong during the operation. Refer to the error
message.
.RE
.TP 8
.B 2 \- Usage error
The command was used incorrectly, for example: unsupported command
line flag, or wrong number of arguments.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
These are examples of how to generate an IBM Secure Execution image in
\fI\,/boot/secure\-linux\/\fR, using the kernel file \fI\,/boot/vmlinuz\/\fR, the
initrd in \fI\,/boot/initrd.img\/\fR, the kernel parameters contained in
\fI\,parmfile\/\fR, the intermediate CA in \fI\,DigiCertCA.crt\/\fR, the IBM Z
signing key in \fI\,ibm\-z\-host\-key\-signing.crt\/\fR, and the host-key document
in \fI\,host_key.crt\/\fR. An AES-256 GCM key is stored in \fI\,comm\-key\/\fR,
which is used when creating a Secure Execution image with guest dump support
enabled in the second example.

Generate an IBM Secure Execution image:

.PP
.B pvimg create \-i \fI\,/boot/vmlinuz\/\fR \-r \fI\,/boot/initrd.img\/\fR \-p \fI\,parmfile\/\fR \-k \fI\,host_key.crt\/\fR \-C \fI\,ibm\-z\-host\-key\-signing.crt\/\fR \-C \fI\,DigiCertCA.crt\fR \-o \fI\,/boot/secure\-linux\/\fR

Generate an IBM Secure Execution image with Secure Execution guest dump support:
.PP
.B pvimg create \-i \fI\,/boot/vmlinuz\/\fR \-r \fI\,/boot/initrd.img\/\fR \-p \fI\,parmfile\/\fR \-k \fI\,host_key.crt\/\fR \-C \fI\,ibm\-z\-host\-key\-signing.crt\/\fR \-C \fI\,DigiCertCA.crt\fR \-o \fI\,/boot/secure\-linux\/\fR \-\-enable\-dump \-\-cck \fI\,comm\-key\fR
.SH NOTES
.IP "1." 4
The \fBgenprotimg\fR(1) command is a symbolic link to the \fBpvimg-create\fR(1) command.
.IP "2." 4
An ELF file cannot be used as a Linux kernel image.
.IP "3." 4
Remember to re-run \fBzipl\fR after updating an IBM Secure Execution image.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
\fBpvimg\fR(1) \fBzipl\fR(8) \fBqemu\fR(1)
